If you desire to become a millionaire, the truth is is that you could become a millionaire through many different avenues. And usually the choice you decide on is going to determine not whether or not you'll become one, but it might determine how fast you'll become one. And I want to share with you what I believe is the fastest way to become a millionaire. And maybe you work a job right now, maybe you currently have a business. Um or maybe you'd you're in sales. This is for people who believe they're really good at what they do. And that what you do is valuable. Maybe people have asked you the question, "Can you help me with this? Hey, can you do this for me?" You know, um you can be paid for what you're good at. I want you to first know that before anything. Uh because if there's anything I'm really good at, it's video. And it's marketing. It's branding. And determining the way I was going to build my business has allowed me to make millions of dollars fairly quickly in my business. Now, I say that with caution cuz doesn't mean I'm I'm not guaranteeing you money in this, but I am just going to be very open, transparent on how I've arrived here. Uh the first thought I want to extend with you which Let me introduce myself. My name is Omar El Attkoury. Welcome to the department where we interview people who are killing it in their department. And sometimes we have experts on here, and we want to help people grow their businesses. But there are times where I'll just deliver some game. And so, uh I appreciate you locking in. And this video or podcast is sponsored by the Content to Cash Challenge, which is a 5-day live coaching experience that I put on to help you take your genius and turn it into money. To take what you've been doing for a very long time and show you how you can make a lot more money with it online through content creation because content creation is wealth creation. That was a good ad, huh? Uh also I'm shooting this straight into my camera. Mic straight into the camera and then I took the SD card and uploaded it straight to YouTube. This video is not edited. Um and if you like what you see and if you like what you hear, you can have my gear guide. Uh there's no cost to it. So, feel free to take that. Thank you to our sponsors, uh the video department for sponsoring this video. But, the first thing I wanted to let you know is uh be careful of the advice you listen to online as I'm sharing advice and saying be careful. But, I've heard and maybe you've heard this that the way you're going to become a millionaire is through the skill of sales. That if you learn sales, you could become a millionaire. And I agree that that is true. But, I hedge because sales isn't the highest paying skill. So, if you've ever heard somebody say that the highest paying skill out there is sales, I don't quite agree with it. Because if that was the case, I would have a sales team. And I've made millions of dollars in my business and continue to make millions of dollars in my business because or really without a sales team. And um I'm going to share with you how you could become someone who can build a very uh small business with very high profit. And this is not uh advice for people who want to like scale your business and sell it one day because what I've learned is if you have a clear owner's intent of what you desire to do, even though that could change over time because as you change, uh but it's very clear to identify that. And I've identified that I'm going to make a lot of money in my young years. I'm 34, about to turn 35. Uh Uh and I'll make I'll make enough money it would be as if I was working to sell something. But everybody working to sell a business is usually not making a lot of money right now. Is that a lot? Okay, let's let's just jump into it. Uh sales is not the highest paying skill. Teaching is the highest paying skill. One of the greatest business models you can build is the business model that I have. And that is a business model that just allows you to teach and get paid. And I'm going to break it down. If you think of business in four phases, there's there's four steps to business. Step number one to business is lead generation. Like if people aren't if you're not finding people or people aren't finding you, then you don't really have a business. If you don't have people's information, you don't have a business. But that's lead generation. Then you have lead conversion. That's taking people that know about your business that then become people who then work and exchange money for your business. And then then there's fulfillment. Fulfilling for what people bought. And if you are a product business, you're shipping the product. If you're a education, coaching, consulting, service base, you're giving the service that they bought. And then then you have uh the the next level, which is retention or ascension. And um and I say all that to say that teaching could be used at every phase of the business. I've been creating content for over 20 years, and I've been teaching how to create content for since about 2018. And something I've learned is that you could teach and market at the same time. And then when you market people with your teaching, you get in front of people and then you teach them about what your business could do for them. And then they buy. And then whatever they bought, you then teach them. You This is crazy. Like I've I've literally There's people grinding their face off in business and I'm like, well, if you're good at what you do, you can get good at teaching what it is you do. And I think it's very important to know that this is a possibility. Like I and I'm I'm I'm not only the only person walking and living this. Um you know, there's so many people that have gone before me and have built business models like this. I'm not I'm not the only person, but I am saying it is one of the greatest, most high profit business models for someone who would choose to go this route. Um I remember when I first started teaching and selling uh online, uh I failed. I remember doing like several Zoom calls and masterclass calls or webinars, however you want to call it, and got hundreds of people on and no one bought. I remember speaking on stages and no one buying. And so it's not just the ability to teach, but it's the ability to teach and sell at the same time. Now, what's the biggest difference between someone who is new at teaching their expertise versus someone who is great at teaching their expertise and getting paid a lot of money for it? The thing is in how you teach. How you teach. So, the biggest mistake that people who teach online make is that they tend to over teach. They tend to over teach. If you are over teaching, a lot of times that comes because you're just super excited, but also it comes because you are unaware of what the objective for your teaching is. And I want to tell you, in any capacity that you teach in, if your objective is to get them as much information as possible, that is a very selfish way of teaching. Because if someone was thirsty and they needed a drink of water, and you came with a fire hose, you didn't serve them. You hurt them. And a lot of new teachers online, educators online, they tend to overwhelm the person they're teaching with information. And I want you to know this, maybe you hopefully it never leaves you, an overwhelmed person never takes action. An overwhelmed person feels like they got more than enough. An overwhelmed person uh will not buy from you and they will actually make they they potentially and I and I made this mistake, they may be more confused because they showed up to one of your videos or one of your trainings. They're literally man, I I I wanted to to to buy a home and now now I'm I'm for sure not going to buy a home. Like you just you you could you could potentially ruin it for people. And the reality is getting good at teaching and selling is getting people to feel. Now, I want you to change your object- objective for your for why you teach. The goal to teach is not to get people information. The goal to teach is to get people feeling like taking the next step. The goal of teaching is to create the feeling in a person to take the next step. There's a difference. Now, few thoughts come into mind. One thought that comes to mind right now is you're probably thinking, "Well, isn't that gatekeeping? How do I know what to hold back and what to give?" I'll first tell you if you focus on the feeling, it will influence how you teach. And I'm not saying don't gatekeep cuz I don't gatekeep. I'm not gatekeeping right now. I'm literally giving you the play. I'm There's no secret woo-woo happening right now, but I have distilled this in a way that you can understand by starting even with mistakes. I could have I can get way more technical, but most of the time new educators, they're very technical. They're very how-to. And one of the And I'm going to go deep. Don't worry. Like I hope you're taking notes. Uh one of the best things you can do I tend to talk over the mic as a instead of like at the mic, but anyway, uh a lot of a lot of new educators, a lot of people teaching for the first time, you because you're so close to the solution, you're obsessed with the solution, you know how to do the thing, you just start you just start talking about the stuff, man. Like you're using industry lingo. You're you're you're getting into the the the weeds of things and I'm telling you from experience that when you over teach, you overwhelm. And an overwhelmed person never takes action. And maybe that action is to actually buy from you. Chances are is if you are attempting to teach right now online, whether it's creating content, whether it's in your emails, whether you're doing web classes or things like that, and no one's buying. I I I would argue you're you're not creating you're not focusing on the feeling of the person learning. You got to consider them. That's a servant That's a servant communicator. It's someone who's thinking about the person receiving the communication. It's not just what you say, it's how you say what you say. And over teaching is it's from from the jump, it is the number one mistake people online are making. And it And And if you get good at this, I'm telling you if you commit to becoming a great teacher online, you'll make unlimited You can make unlimited money, truly. Um So, just determine your objectives for why you're teaching. And adding value it should be an objective. Like the Like I most people look at my face online and they're like, "That dude taught me how to blank." I got this camera because of him. I know how to do this because of him. I Dude, I launched this business because of you. I started a podcast studio because of you. I started selling an offer because of you. I started doing web classes cuz of you. Like So, I hope I hope you're not hearing that like you can't be valuable. Now, if your level of value is capped because of the lack of your experience, cuz your inability uh to to communicate uh from a way that can serve people at a high level, then that's on you, boo-boo. Like, a lot of what I'm talking about honestly comes from the ministry of Jesus. That he he was able to teach in a way that created feelings in people to move and take action. That's how he got he got people to do stuff. That's called persuasion. He He was so good, and he and he knew that Why did he Cuz he knew more about their problem than they did themselves. Heyo. He was more obsessed with who they were and their problem and what was keeping them in the way of moving forward that he would speak in parables. He would speak, and I'll get I'll get to a lot of some more of this, but just I want you and and if you don't maybe read the Bible, I would encourage you. It doesn't matter if you believe or not, you can learn a lot from how Jesus persuaded people, and you can find a lot of those stories and those accounts of his life in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Just get a Bible, NIV, NLT, ESV, and start reading how Jesus communicated, and he communicated in this way um So, determining the objective is to add value. The objective is to sell. The objective is to sell, which means to create the feeling in a person to want to buy. And sometimes they're not buying, sometimes they're downloading a free link of a gear guide. Maybe you downloaded the gear guide because you were like, "Dude, this guy looks good. He's he's obviously quality. He's professional. This it's all it's all about the feeling. People I heard I learned this from my friend Eileen Wilder. She said, people do things for one reason and one reason only. Because they feel like it. That is the only reason why people do stuff. And so if if people don't do stuff with you, chances are is they don't feel like it. Now, can you create the feeling in a person to want to feel like it? And the answer is yes, because everything you own, every decision you've made in life, something created the feeling in you to want that. The house you bought, the spouse you chose, the shoes you're wearing, the hat you're wearing, something along the lines influenced the feeling. And this is powerful. So, with the number one mistake of teaching online being over teaching and versus over delivering, which by the way, they're not they're not the same thing. Over teaching is not over delivering. You you can over you can someone can click a YouTube video like this or listen to a podcast like this and be like, whoa, I got way more. I literally just read a comment last week. Bro, watching this for the seventh time. So, if you want to tell me I'm gatekeeping, like no. And I the secret sauce to gatekeeping by the way, the secret sauce to not gatekeeping is understanding the context people are receiving information in. So, you watching this on YouTube, I could charge a lot of money for this information, and I have charged a lot of money for this information, but because you are consuming this on a platform that is transient and you're going to click away in a couple minutes and all this stuff like the the that's that's why the the the value is determined by you. This is why the the power of investing in yourself comes when you put yourself in a position to pay attention to information, which is a lot of the times all an offer is is like, "Hey, I want to give you the opportunity to take this more serious." And here's the dollar amount. Here's the investment that must be made. And then they they are now in a post-transaction consumer standpoint, which they're paying attention more and they pay attention differently. This is biblical, too. Cuz where your treasure is, there your heart is also. If you ever want to grow in an area, if you ever want to uh accomplish something that someone else has accomplished already, if you pay them, you'll pay attention more. And I'm not saying that to self-serve me, cuz you need to just find the person that you resonate with to learn from them. So, with the biggest mistake being over-teaching, the solution for that mistake, friend, is shifting beliefs. Shifting beliefs. Your job is for someone to think about or believe about the thing differently than they did before they met you. For example, if you sell real estate and someone wants to buy their home for the first time, it is in your best interest to make a person feel more empowered, feel like they could trust you, feel like it's possible to actually get into their first home. But you can you can go either way. You can You know, I've heard people demonize homeownership. I've heard people demonize renting. But based on what you do for a living, it's in your best interest, especially if you believe in what you're doing, which is huge. Uh But if you believe in what you're doing, then it's possible. But you shift beliefs by making people feel like it's possible, by making people feel like it's easy, by making people feel like they can trust you. And there's a lot of things that go into creating those three things. Uh the literally at the time of me filming this right now, there's this creator that started If I'm not mistaken, is her name Paige? This This girl on Instagram, her name is Paige. She started a brand new Instagram account in January of this year. Started teaching on this account, creating the feeling in people that they could trust her. She grew over 300,000 followers on Instagram, launched a $300 product, and 3,000 people bought it. She made $1.2 million dollars without a sales team. Barely brought on an admin with her phone. When I When I tell you that this is the skill, I'm telling you it's the skill, and it's not too late. And you can do this. But if I reverse engineer even what she's done, she's just She's helped people make like creating content could be so easy. Now, there are I'm I would consider myself a content coach. And most people follow my teachings because I have a way of making it seem easy. Now, here's what's crazy. Here's what happens to a person's mind when you teach in a way they feel empowered and that this is easy. Number one, if they feel like it's easy because you said it, that they probably it probably, you know, psychologically they're thinking to themself, it's going to be easy if I work with them. That's literally a conversation happening in their mind. But also, it's the ability to just shrink down the information to its essence. Most of the time if you're like so close to your your know-how and somebody asks you a question, you you you verbally process the answer. Oh, I mean, yeah, you can, you know, go this route. You can go, you know, you can do this or you or you can do this, you know, and rather than that, like you mean, maybe you go here and you try it this way. Bro, sis, one. Boil it down to one. Like I I even when I think about this video that I created, I could have I could have made it about so many things, but I'm making about one thing. Learn to teach and sell at the same time. Build a business where you teach for lead gen, teach for lead conversion, teach for fulfillment, teach for retention. You don't need a sales team. Like, isn't that crazy? Like, I've I'm literally doing it right now. Not even trying to be all sneaky. I'm literally doing right now. I'm making you believe that this is potentially the easiest way to build your business. It doesn't matter if you're a coach, consultant, service provider, expert, speaker, this business model is brilliant. So, a couple a couple of thoughts I want you to consider when it comes to teaching and yeah. First thought is every person you have helped, I want you to know this. Every person you have helped, you defied odds. Every person you've ever helped, you defied the odds. They were one way, you helped them, they're a new way. Before they met you, they were here. After they met you, they were here. So, what do Why do I even share that? I share that because if you if you want to make a lot of money teaching and selling online, it's so important that you come up with your own frameworks, that you come up with your own intellectual property. And noth- there's nothing new under the sun. That's what the Bible says, and it's true. However, you can make things seem new. You can make things appear as new if you've put it together in a formula, in a blueprint, in a procedure, in a framework, in a system. Like, this person was overweight. I took them through this, and now they're in the best shape of their life. The the the this right here, the transformation you took them through, do something with that. Whatev- You know You know what I found? That most people tend to have processes. Most people tend to have a procedure they walk people through. You have a um I I like to call it a uh a a subconscious formula. Like if you're super gifted, like I can go in any room and get somebody to create incredible content. It'll look amazing. It'll sound amazing. And it's just like boom. But I realized that I actually it's audio, dialing in the audio, the dialing the lighting, dialing the video, and then dialing the shot. ALVS. I can do a whole I I can do a whole hour-long teaching on my framework for creating magnetic content. ALVIS. But whatever you do, I want I want you to document what it is you do with people or what it is you've done with people and create intellectual property and then call it whatever you want to call it. Call it the baby steps. Like not I'm not saying call it the baby steps, but like Dave Ramsey created the seven baby steps to financial freedom. Like Grant Cardone has created the BRRRR method. I don't know if he's created that in real estate. Um I I recently uploaded a video on how to uh you know, how to become a thought leader. Students identity, leaders responsibility, mastering deliverability. Now, there's some key when you when you when you create a name for an intellectual property when you're teaching something, and I want you to notice that people that very high-level people do this. I call this the the I've created this framework. It's the 131 method. Like they do this because they realize why why why? Because they want people to feel like when they learn it they're super smart. They want Did you realize that when you talk in a way like this people feel so smart. They feel empowered. Man, I'm so glad I watched that video. Man, I'm so glad I got on that web class. Like it it's it's insane. And you know, something I've even learned is if you draw like drawing is huge. We're all visual learners. And when we draw people connect. Our brains Our brains are always looking for a picture. Remember when you were a young kid? And you would look up at the sky on a cloudy day. What would your brain do? Your brain would look for faces. Your brain would try to make up images from the clouds. But I'm just I'm just saying um document what you do and create intellectual property by giving it a name and stamping it and saying this is what I walk my clients through. And watch people Okay, I paid Myron Golden essentially $110,000 to learn this gem I'm just going to give you right now. It's going to This requires some work. But for those that are willing to do it get ready. Get ready. He said for every letter of the alphabet create frameworks and formulas for your expertise. So three A's, three B's, three C's. It could be three or five. Um But, when you talk in a way that people can easily follow along, it the the the way they will be the This is how you get bombarded at at a conference. You get bombarded at a conference because you you literally transformed what they thought about and how they thought about the thing that they've been struggling with. Um So, what are we talking about? We're talking about shifting beliefs. And I'm telling you you can draw those beliefs from the confidence you've created by helping people defy the odds, by helping them get the outcomes. And then, ask yourself, what are people currently doing wrong or thinking wrong about getting the outcome you can help them with? I just uh we have a a program called Masterclass to Money, which we help people write their signature presentation, and help them craft a message that moves people into the next step into their business, whether in real estate and things like that. And if you want more information about that, we'll put a a link in the description. But, I just did a um I just did a video reviewing one of the guys in the program, Kyler, and his big thing is he wants he he wants to persuade people into building their YouTube channels through podcasting. And the biggest mistake he made in his first delivery of it, uh it was was not making it about that thing. Not making it about start a podcast on YouTube. Start a podcast on YouTube. Have a podcast on YouTube. But, when I I'm I've been on this platform for 20 years, and there's some things about this platform I realize is wrongful thinking that people have about this platform, and that is they believe they need fancy editing. I'm literally This is literally an unedited video right now, and you're watching it or you're listening to it. They They They think it needs to be or yeah, like perfectly polished. They think they could do it alone. YouTube is a team sport. Um so, even the attempt to do it in isolation, the uh the thought that you need to have perfect edits or you need even need to edit a video. Another Here's another one. You make videos as ads. Not as adding value. Huge mistake. The reason why you're not getting views on YouTube I'm literally teaching you this so I in real time. Um But, the This is how you grow on YouTube, but you you have to unpack why people are stuck, and This is the This is another crazy thing I learned with a lot of money invested is um You don't want to teach how to from your point of view. Don't teach people how to do something tactfully. Teach when or when not. Teach why or why not. Teach where or where not. Uh Teach what or what not. But, don't teach how. When I heard this, I realized why my my videos on YouTube have gotten so many views. It's because I accidentally was doing that. You can actually title your content or title your introductory event and title it how to do this even though you have this. But when you deliver it, you're sharing what to do, not how to do. You're sharing what not to do, not how to do. You're sharing when to do, not how to do. And here here's why, because when you start teaching how, you will start to lose people. I don't know if you hear it. My friend's throwing a mastermind at our HQ. Um and I'm about to wrap up this video and you're not supposed to say that at the end of the video, but uh I'm just trying to get to you how I've become a millionaire teaching these things and um I I know this was kind of like a very raw, transparent delivery of this and I was considering um this could be a a full-blown series, but I wanted to introduce you to the idea that you can make a lot of money teaching straight up speaking. You can make a lot of money speaking. And uh there's a lot of people who are really good at what you do and you're you're underpaid. And my heart is that you are properly paid for how great you are. That you are properly paid for how great you are. A lot of these phrases come at the end of things when it should show up at the front end of things, but it's all right. We're we're we're still chugging along. So, if you have any questions about this, I would love just DM me on Instagram or you can put it in the comments. I I read 99% of the comments on YouTube. Uh it's me. Uh I am not this crazy guru guy. Uh maybe you've been following me for some time, but I'm I've literally I'm just trying to help people uh make more money with what it is they know so that they can help other people and that's really what it comes down to. It comes down to service, which that is business. Great business is service and if people feel like you can help them, they're probably going to be happy to pay you. And I I even forgot to I should have mentioned this up front. When you build your business this way, a value-based business where you teach people into the feeling of going to the next step with you, when they buy from you, when they work with you, they're not wondering or questioning their purchase. They actually will thank you for selling them something. They will thank you for selling them something because the ability to teach and make somebody feel better about themself, better about their situation, instill or install some hope in their journey based on whatever it is you are helping them with, bro, what a great thing. And I love helping thousands of people with this podcast because I'm not trying to do business with a thousand people a year. Genuinely, I don't need to. That sounds like a nightmare. Um and so I just need a few hundred people who would like to scale, build that brand, launch that program, create that offer, increase that price, communicate better, sell predictably. Um it's it's it's really crazy. It's It's for my from my point of view in my business, it's it's crazy how predictable it can get if you just keep at it. At this point, we run ads, we teach. The group of that that came to the teach jump into the next teach, the next of that teach will go into the next level of teach. And here's how I've been able to free myself from the trap of the hustle and grind and and then get paid really well with it. It's just adopting adopting the right beliefs about business that it doesn't have to be what you think it is, that it could be easy, that it could be enjoyable, uh that it could be fulfilling. And I am so fulfilled for the type of business and all the people we get to help. This is a right here is a freedom award. All my clients that work with me and make the money uh they invested into our programs back. Cuz what I'm showing is like, bro, investing in yourself really has no cost. You get paid to invest in yourself. And um and I know you're doing that, especially if you're watching now. Hey, if you're still listening or watching, DM me on Instagram be and let me know that you watched this till the end. Um would love to just get connected on there and I hope this helped and I know this helped because if I had this information looking down the barrel of a lens and just given to me plainly, uh things would change. And again, if you want to take the Content to Cash Challenge, uh click the link in the description. If you want my gear, click the link. Just check out the description. Grateful for you, Department fam. We'll see you in the next one. Peace.