If you desire to build a business on your expertise or on your genius or maybe you are currently a business owner or an entrepreneur and you want to make a pivot, I'm going to be sharing with you in this video the greatest business model for people who are really good at what they do. Maybe you've been doing something for a very long time, but in this video I'm going to teach you how to teach and grow rich. And this is kind of a follow-up video from the last upload I had. And if you're new to the department family, if you're new to me, my name is Omar Takori. I've been online for over 20 years. Been teaching online for uh almost 10 years. I've acquired millions of subscribers on various different channels and uh started this podcast honestly almost three years ago at this point and it's been incredible. And in this time frame, I'm al I've also started a new business uh about 3 four years ago and have reached millions of dollars in revenue and continue to make tons of money. So I don't I don't I say that with caution though because what I'm going to teach you in this video is not going to guarantee your bank account to grow. But I will but I can say that for myself and my clients and people in my industry that they would probably all agree that the greatest business model to initially pursue is a business that just allows you to show up and teach. And so just a little bit of a review but might be brand new to you is let's break down what is business comprised of to begin with. Well, all businesses uh start with lead generation. Then you got lead conversion. Then you have fulfillment and then you have attention or ascension or retention. Ascension or retention meaning they're going to the next stage, the next phase or they stay. Now the beautiful thing about building a business around your genius around your gifts uh is that you can teach to grow your leads to generate leads. You can then teach to convert those leads and then you can teach once they become your customers and your clients and then you continue to teach and they stay around. And I'm going to attempt to articulate to the group to my best ability in this moment. Uh weighing those that watched the video last week and number one question that really came up. I I think the part in last week's episode of the department was really I I I said uh stop teaching how to because the biggest mistake most teachers make online is that they overte. If that's you, just lock in, settle in, pull out a notepad, take out your phone notes, um or listen, and then maybe come back and listen to it again cuz I got a lot I got a lot to say about this subject, and I want to make sure I hit as much as possible. This uh conversation is sponsored by the content to cash challenge. It's a 5-day live coaching experience with myself that's done on Zoom. And if you are looking to turn your content into cash or if you're looking to make money online with your business that you currently have, whether you're a service provider, coach, consultant, uh no matter what it is you do, uh the beautiful thing about the content to cash challenge is it's just a great place to get your foundations. And also this uh I like giving away my gear list. So if you like what you see and what you hear, you can grab the gear list below. And so let's um I don't want to feel like I'm just rambling, but I just have so many thoughts. I put some things down and I just do want to say I'm so grateful for you. If you're not subscribed already, hit the subscribe button. Ao. Um but yeah, let's let's first start with why number one I don't gatekeep and why this concept doesn't gatekeep. concept of teaching in a way that gets people to do things to move to the next step to to download the thing or to to become a client of yours. Uh it doesn't require you to gatekeep because when I say that the number one mistake that most teachers make is overeing. Um I'm not saying to pull back. I am not saying to withhold. I am saying though to identify your objectives. Most people are teaching and they just have the wrong objective and that's why they're overaching because you think the objective is to is to give everything show everything. But we talked about in this in in last week's uh episode that that overwhelms people and overwhelmed people don't buy. And so I'm going to try to break down contextually when it's time to do stuff. when do you teach how to when like so so Omar I I still don't understand so great uh the first thing I want you to adopt is this reality and it's this thinking and it's the thinking that the context in which the content is consumed determines the value of the content the context stop right there context are Are you listening on YouTube? Are you listening on podcasts? Are you watching this clip right now on Tik Tok or Instagram? Did I post it on my stories? Did I talk about it in my stories? Context. Are you Is that where you're watching it from? Or did you come to the live inerson podcast recording that we did? Why Why would people We just had it like I just recorded with Dan Martell. Why would a hundred people come to a live recording knowing that there's this is going to be posted online? By the way, someone flew in from Florida, Denver, Vancouver, drove in, three people drove in from California, two people came in from Utah. I'm currently in Las Vegas, by the way. Why? Why would people move and get in a room? Because the context of the content determines the value of the content. Do are you starting to see this? Okay. So like this is because the biggest the biggest misconception you might have about delivering valuable information online is that people need more information and information is commoditized especially because of AI. But what people need is they need organization. They need consolidation. Uh they need approximation, they need transformation. So like it's it's the way in which information is delivered is is where the transformation or even the the value comes from. And you know where I get this from, by the way, I don't know about you, I've been going to, you know, I've been I was raised Catholic. Um, and then when I was 20 years old, I got radically saved in a non-denominational spiritfilled Bible teaching church and currently at a church. I'm one of the pastors at a church called City Light in Las Vegas, Nevada. And um, I've been following the Lord since 2011. And uh, I love the Bible. And that's where a lot of my a lot of the principles and truths that I teach from on on this platform come from. And I don't know if you know about this parable, but Jesus tells us a parable that he proceeds before he tells it to say if you don't understand this, you won't understand anything else. If you don't understand this one thing, you won't understand this anything else. Then he goes on to share about the parable of the swer or the parable of the soil. And just I don't want to bore you with this but maybe this is very helpful for you to know because if you can if you can uh ground or have the foundation of what you're about to learn right now in truth, it's going to sit much better. So, and this is pretty meta right now as in I'm teaching on how to be teached so that you could teach better. Mow better. Okay. So, so it starts off with Jesus saying the seed goes out. The seed goes out. In the context of the scripture, the the seed meaning the the word that's what the seed when he's saying the seed goes out, it means when when the word of God goes out, it lands on four kinds of ground. four kinds of ground. Right? Now, we could take a principle that doesn't have to be exactly uh you know connected to that context. Here, here's the reality. A seed is information. Seed is words. Seed is what you hear the things going on. Like everything is a seed. My business coach Myron Golden said your thoughts are a seed. Your decisions are a seed. Your actions are a seed. here everything like this this podcast is a seed. It's sewing a seed, right? So, so the Jesus says the seed goes out. And here's what's crazy about what the seed goes out. Why can you go to a conference? Why can you go to a church? Why can you go to a college, sit in the same room when the same information that is given to the masses but yet a small group of people actually thrive? Well, this is where is because it's because of what Jesus said in the gospels. That's why cuz I mean I've been I've been going to church for sorry I dropped my phone and this is raw. though. Raw dog, bro. The only guy that will talk about Jesus and say raw dog in the same sentence, but like it's a raw. &gt;&gt; Okay. Here we go. Uh, no, but literally, I've been going to church since 2011, and I've seen people leave the faith. I've se seen people deconstruct. I've seen people self-sabotage their lives. And then I've seen people thrive all under the same teaching. What makes the difference? The difference is is in the soil. It's in the soil. And so, uh, Jesus says there's four kinds of soil. And the first kind of soil, and they all represent something. So, the the first kind of soil is the path. This is uh where the information or the the seed goes out and lands on the path and it says it it it's land it lands on hard packed ground where birds immediately snatch it away. This represents a closed heart. People who hear a message but do not understand it allowing it to be easily stolen away. So like you might be even like listening to content online and stuff like this and you're like you you you have a closed heart to begin with. That's why it doesn't sit. I'm I'm teaching you how to teach. I'm teaching you how to teach because there's healthy assumptions you can have when you when you're giving game and when you're educating. There's healthy assumptions you can have. And one of those assumptions is that not everyone's going to get what I'm going to put down. And that's totally fine. The second is so the rocky ground. This is shallow soil. Seed that lands on a thin layer of soil over rock. The plant springs up quickly, but it then it withers by the sun and it lacks deep roots. This represents a shallow heart. So, we got a closed heart and then we have a shallow heart. Last week's episode is going bonkers right now. And I've I've been going through your guys's comments. By the way, I read all my all the comments. Um, and I appreciate anytime you take the time to say thank you. You said I needed to hear this. Man, this changed the way I thought. Hey, I took action. I did this because of you. Just want to say thank you for that. But there there's been some comments be like, "I'm four minutes in and there's nothing." Bro, you missed it. The reason why you suck at teaching is because you're a sucky student. Hey yo, you have a closed heart. You have a a shallow heart. Like you're Thank you, bro, for projecting your inability to learn and your shallow attention span. And and I think there's something to say here. I I'm there's something to say here because if you want to speak in a way that really not just garers attention, but holds it, stewards it, transforms the person who's receiving it. It's not going to happen in a in a sound bite. But but but we're in a we're you got to be very careful because the reason why I'm talking about you like why when I'm Jesus is talking about us. This this is less about the seed in this context. It's less about the seed and more about what it lands on which is very telling. But if we're if we're distributors of information, we have to understand this parable. Okay. So So there's rocky ground. It's a shallow heart. Those who receive it, you you're like, I got it. But then it falls away as soon as trouble or persecution arises. Like literally, you allow your external reality determine what happens on the inside of you. When when when information is trying to take root, you allow the the things that are going on around you to to kill it. Which this is why it's important to find a a great environment. Find a room where the conversation is conducive to your future. The third place, the third type of ground the seed lands on is weedy soil or the thorns. It's the seed does uh the seed takes root but it's choked out by the weeds. And this represents distracted hearts, people who hear the word, but it's ultimately choked out by the worries of life, the deceitfulness of wealth, and the worldly desires resulting in no spiritual growth. Like somebody commented on last video also was like another one. And isn't it funny how like I focus on the negative, but that's just we're humans. But they were just saying how uh you know a million's not enough, bro. You got to focus on being a billionaire. If you're focused on money to begin with, you lose. Like riches is simply a byproduct of the value you add to the world. And so if you're not experiencing the financial success you desire to have, which I would I would say is a is a God-given desire for you to want to prosper, for you to want to be a blessing, for you to be so well resourced that you can actually take care of other people's needs. Don't don't you want that? Like I would I would say then then then you you're you're you're focus you might be focused on the wrong thing but it's it's Jesus says if you're if you're worried if you are worried while you're listening to this right now or watching this I I want to encourage you to just remove yourself from those from those things like it you will be taken care of especially if you're if your heart is to serve if your heart is to serve this to to become a great teacher it means to be a great servant, but you don't you don't want to. A lot of times great servants are the ones overd delivering, but but then if you dig deeper, those great servants are just insecure. They're insecure about the information or they're insecure about feeling the to prove their worth based on the information. So you can you can get a sense of that through tonality and through um you know for like the the the the way in which you communicate which which is tonal tonality but inflection too. Uh you could you can hear the calmness in my voice. I have nothing to prove. I have nothing. I don't do I even need to do this right now. I genuinely don't. Like the business is fine. The team is great. We got a sick system that makes us a lot of money. So, but I do know that this is a great way to meet new people and um but I'm I'm not here to prove anything. You can do what you want. You're an adult based on what YouTube tells us that you you're about 24 to 38 years old. That's like the majority of people that are watching. Okay. Now, the fourth soil. So, let's review. Jesus says the seed goes out and then uh it goes on hard soil, shallow soil, weedy soil and then he and then it lands on good soil which is receptive soil receptive. And he says seed that lands on good soil uh it takes root and it produces a harvest. Okay, I know that was pause for dramatic effect because what determines good soil production? Those who do with what they hear determines whether you have good soil or not. Now this is deep because from the perspective of a student, are you a student who has good soil? Because if you desire to teach and make millions, you got to be a great student first. You will never find a a expert communicator, an expert teacher, a thought leader, someone who's killing it who doesn't first see themsself as a student. And so the first question is, how's your soil? Are you someone who just consumes and consumes and doesn't do anything with what they consume? You just overthink. Well, no wonder you're terrible at teaching because you don't implement. There's so much revelation in imple implementation. I will say that again since I stumbled. There is so much revelation in implementation and and you are losing the amount of insight you can have because you don't focus or you don't actually go and do. Now this is important because if the goal is to get people to feel like doing, we must teach in a way that helps people do that. And all I you know all I'm concerned with as an educator the only group I am really concerned with is the receptive group the people who are willing to listen and hear and then do by the way that's like faith identified faith defined um or I'm sorry I I retract that the way faith comes the way you build belief in you based on in the book of Romans it says faith comes by hearing and hearing the word. But then it also says in James, it says don't just be mirrors, mere hearers of the word, but be doers of the word. So you got to take action on the things you learn. Produce, produce, produce. So why did I share that? I share that because what makes a bad teacher or an average teacher is truly a bad student or an average student. And I I I'll sum it up like this and I apologize for the extreme language, but if you suck at learning, you will suck at teaching. So I'm I I I preface this whole delivery on the reality that you must identify yourself as a great student. How many books are you going to read before you do something? How many podcasts are you going to listen to before you do something? Like at some point you have to do so that you can get the information. I I said do it for the data. This is why I I can go back to not teaching. Sorry, I hit the mic. Not teaching how to. I don't have to teach how to. I don't have to teach how to because because it'll only confuse you. And I'm going to share from experience. I I was on a channel many years ago. You guys might some of you guys might know a channel called Think Media. And it is it's a dude. It's so good. We were I was able to teach very practical tactical how-tos, tips and tricks and hacks on the content creation thing, which got a lot of people, but my my DMs were full of more people who just had even more questions, which is kind of what like led me into starting a business. And then I learned how to really teach in a way that um moves people. But there's levels of learning and there's levels of teaching. And by the way, I I I won't retach those things cuz the the person that does it the best is Myin Golden. He's on YouTube. You should follow him if you don't. Um, but he teaches the four levels of learning and the four levels of value. And he teaches uh the levels of teaching, too, which you know, you could the four levels of teaching. So, I'm not going to repeat it. I'm going to say it in a way that I've adopted. Um, but I used to make trick videos, tips, hacks, and um, they they get a lot of views, but they they don't they don't transform. They don't they don't create the feeling in a person. So, I want you to first identify the objective of why you are teaching in the first place. And then you have to identify those objectives for the context you're doing it in. There's different objectives for Instagram and YouTube and having a webinar presentation or a master class or a workshop or a boot camp. Like I mean there's just there's different contexts determine different objectives. And and I'll just tell you right now, my objective with YouTube is to produce content that is very, very long form so that you undeniably know who I am. Now that sometimes I'll have a guest, sometimes I'll have a co-host, sometimes I'll do it alone, but you can't fake who you are for a long time. And whether you agree or disagree, the facts are the facts. I believe Donald Trump won the US presidential election because he got on more long form formats. He had two-hour conversations half a dozen times. He played golf with Bryson Dambo. He went on Joe Rogan. He had a conversation with Dave Ramsey. He he he he put himself in a position that created undeniable integrity just cuz how do you how how do how do you how are you going to be a politician for three hours on the golf course? This is not going to happen. like you you gota you got to be you. You just got to be you. So that's my biggest objective with the podcast for myself. Now this is important. Your perspective as an educator comes down to who you are giving the information and then who you want to receive the information. Now, the objective is to make you aware that I do have a coaching experience, the content to cash challenge. 99.99% of you guys won't even click the link or check it out yourself. And that's totally fine. I don't need you to. But for the 01%, let's go. If if you feel like this resonates, if you feel like I'm your guy, if you feel like there's more to learn from me, then let's go. Let's go to the next level. And then then the next level will have its own objective. I think it's just so important to identify that objective because if you do, if you don't know why you're teaching, you're going to fail at what to teach. Bars, gems. Is that what the young people say? &gt;&gt; Yes, it is. But it's if if you don't know why you're teaching, you won't know what to teach. And then this is why you get into overeing is because you'll overexlain. You'll start using industry lingo and you're like, "Oh, cuz I thought the goal was to give it all away." And like, no, that's that's fire hose. We want to one thing at a time. One thing at a time. I don't know why, but like yeah, it's one drink at a time. That's why I pulled this up. Um, you know, something that I love that Myin taught me is he taught me about the difference between being an amateur and being a master. Like mastery versus amateur hours. The goal of learning isn't to to know more. Like the goal of learning isn't to get more information. The goal of information, the goal of learning, I'm sorry. The goal of learning is to master. Now he defines mastery as the use of unconscious re the use of unconscious resources to execute a given task. So if you do something right now that feels very difficult, you you just have you have a a grow gap. There's a grow gap there because I don't need much to create content. I just need a a light, a camera, a mic, and we're good. But I didn't just arrive here. I worked my way here. I I watched myself back. I improved the way I communicate. I slowed down my cadence. Like I learned about cadence. Like there's like if you want to be good at if you want to be a good teacher then commit to mastering your ability to teach. So you want to identify the objective which I if you just want one for your content just think for people to be empowered to do the thing. you you want people to be empowered, not overwhelmed. Empowered meaning one thing. I had Dan Martell a couple days ago. Uh we'll release that podcast next week. And as we talked about AI, he was so good at making people feel empowered to go and attack AI because like I would, if I'm going to be honest, I'm very overwhelmed with AI. I'm an artist. I'm a creative. I'm I I use intuition. And I don't I didn't use AI to create this podcast. I didn't use AI to come up with the contents. I I genuinely sit and I write and or I think about it and then I put it down as thoughts and then I deliver it like, you know, but but we're here. The AI revolution's here. But he he shared in in a succinct way what to do on how to get your emails, how to never read your emails again. but he did he still didn't teach the how-to, right? It's like he just told you what to do. So, we want people to feel empowered. Um, and then another question that came up a lot was when do you decide when to teach how to? Now, this is funny because this question comes from a place many times that thinking by by you holding hands step by step and demonstrating how to do how to you believe that that is the way people get the result and I'm I'm just literally going to tell you by experience my coaching program we do workshops where we fly people or people fly into Las Vegas and we set this all up for them and we show them and we tell them like we do it all and they still will get it wrong. I'm looking at Art because he's be he's behind the camera. He's not sick anymore. But like we we are blown away. We're blown away because there is it there is no full extent not no human is created equal and so people are in people's brains work differently. You got to have these healthy assumptions when you get into teaching. There's different personalities you're dealing with. Different learning uh some people are more visual learners, some people are more practical learners. people are you got to you know it's just like it's all over it's all over the place and all we can do as teachers is just put out the information that will resonate with the most people that would encourage or empower them to take a next step but I'm telling you you can you can really go into the nitty-gritty of how to in my opinion uh after a payw wall some capacity you determine that I'm not here to tell you what to charge I'm not telling you when to charge, but I am I am going to tell you that when somebody pays you, they'll be more receptive of the how-to. So, I I actually learned this also from Jesus. Not saying Jesus had a payw wall, but Jesus always took care of the need he knew they or I'm sorry, Jesus always took care of the need they knew they had before he helped them with the need he knew they had. And this this is why great teachers online are obsessed with the people that they are teaching. They are obsessed with the problems that people have. so you could speak to the needs that they know they need. So, the reason why last week's video resonated so well is because I used the word teacher in the title there. You know how many people in the comments were like, I know I'm called to teach. I know I'm supposed to teach. I know I need to teach. I know I got to teach. I called them with the need they knew they needed and then you can give them the solution. And sometimes that's the like the how-to in this context, right? So I I I mentioned in the last video I said don't teach how to teach what and what not. Teach why and or why not. Teach when or when not. Teach where or where not. So when do you then teach how to that's just where your business comes in. Um you know Alex Heroszi uh one of the more prolific voices in business right now would say teach how to then sell the implementation. I think that's a great strategy, but I also you gota you got to hear that tip or that idea from from the right lens, from the right filter, I guess you could say. When he says teach how to, you could teach you you disguise how to, but you still teach what? And so I am a product of this on Think Media. One of my most view viewed videos is how to edit videos in Premiere Pro. This is crazy. I actually feel like you know what? You know what? This is important. This really resonates with people who can't be contained. You can't contain me to a 10-minute video, to a 5 hour video, to a 12-h hour workshop, to a twoeek program. Like, I there's there's too much to contain. So the the the format creates its own limitation for the teaching. I'm just breaking people's minds right now and I know and that's okay. You just got to you just got to let it keep coming. You got to just keep listening. Keep listening and then slowly you'll be it'll click. It'll click. Um but that video I made I will never forget this. I made a video on how to get started in editing in Adobe Premiere Pro and it was like beginners's guide. Bro, sis, I literally just showed what to do before you start editing. Why you looking at me like that? I literally said, "You're going to create a folder on your desktop." That's a what? And I'm screen sharing. So, like I just I'm trying to like kill like the I don't know the teaching how to. No, it's still sharing. What? Make a photo folder on your desktop. Open up Premiere Pro. Save as. Create a sequence. Now you're ready to edit. I didn't even teach how to edit that. That video has two over two million views. Do fe did people feel more empowered to to edit after watching that video? 100%. And it's because I I helped them start, right? This is like it's your interpret. You have to interpret based on the people you want to help how you're going to help them. So, you could teach how to, but I just want you to know you're you're just packaging it in how to. Here's how to become a millionaire. Here's how to save on taxes. Here's how to buy a home. Here's but then you still share what you sh you got to sh this. This is why is because the goal is to shift beliefs. If you're really trying to identify the objective of why you're even teaching in the first place is you got to do it to shift belief. Now, if you're the type of person who always wants the tactics, the tips, and the hacks, you could stay that person, you're just going to have a very hard time making money. Cuz the way you sell is the way you buy. And if you're the type of person that wants 10,000 hours of content for $100, which we all could agree that that's like not going to help. You're not going to do anything. You're not going to watch any of that. And even if you did, it's only you're it's not going to do anything for you. You need to become the person that that can that can extract the doable action that you need to do in this season and then implement it and then get the data and then you can watch back and listen to the other 50 minutes because there's just so much. There's so much the the world is. There's just so much nuance. There's nothing like it's so abundant. It's so infinite. There's just so much. So to be to be absolute or matter of fact without having principles or truth, you're you're just ignorant. You're just you're ignorant and ignorant. All right. Um Okay. This is the part where this is the this is the conversation distinction between mindset versus tactics. This is a huge debate. One of the biggest debates online is the goal mindset or is the goal to teach tactics. The reason why you can package how to but then deliver the other things is because it's always about mindset. I'm telling you as someone who is a multi-millionaire who has a business that does multiple millions in revenue in a short amount of time. By the way, I just started my business like three and a half years ago. It's always mindset. You got a belief that is always in the way of you actually taking action. So I I I I I always go back and forth with friends. Do I teach? But then you still got to teach some tactics. The the only time I believe you should teach a tactic is when it's delivered in the right context and in a way that anyone can do it. That's a that's a great time to teach tactics. So, but but if people are just consuming online and you and all you're doing is teaching tactics, they're not you're not going to be perceived as being able to solve a higher problem. But like you you can ask any wealthy individual. All broke people want tactics. People who have made it will say it's mindset. Why is that the case? Why do why do people who are in their struggling season think tactics is their way out whereas people who have made it will conclude and say it was always mindset. Well, it's because you've got scales in your season. You've got scales because of your experience. When I say scales, I mean scales over your eyes where you have a hard time seeing the world. There is not an information problem. We don't have an information problem. We have an application problem, but we also have a um a uh con like like I mentioned consolidation problem. Like how are you consolidating all the content you're consuming, all the information you're consuming? Like what do you need to do right now in this season? Then why don't you do that? Well, because your mind is talking yourself out of it. That's why this is why this is why mindset is is very important. This is this is why when you teach in a way that changes the way people think. I have defined true influence true impact is when someone thinks about the thing differently than they did a after they met you. True influence is thinking differently about something because they met you, because they heard you say it, because they because they heard you talk about it. And it's and then it's not only they they think of it differently, they then act on it. So, so when I made videos, and I'm trying to go I'm trying to go backwards in my journey because, you know, sometimes you kind of forget, but I remember making videos like what camera to buy on YouTube for YouTube. what camera to buy for YouTube. And what here's what happened because I shared what the cameras did and I never even showed how to use the cameras. Now, I did have tutorials on how to use the cameras. Uh but I still shared what it's just crazy because people are like, I still don't get it. Ah, and that's okay. Just make videos, just help people. But when people came up to me and said, hey, Omar, I started a studio because of you. Hey, Omar, I bought that camera because of you. Hey, they the content influenced them to take action. I literally got a DM this morning while I was having coffee in the backyard and I and I sent it to the team. Some guy was like, "Bro, I appreciate you. I finally opened up my studio because of you." Not a client. Didn't pay me. Doesn't pay me. He might have been in something. Maybe he took a challenge like, but literally people are starting businesses because of the free content. That's influence, friend. That's influence. I'm just looking at my notes real quick. So, I just want you to know that this is why how you teach is so important because your teaching could just be repelling people because you're teaching too much. Or um I wrote this thought down and it I said uh speaking or teaching is a revealer. When you put yourself in a position to teach or speak or create content, you know, all you're doing is you're revealing and projecting who you are. And so if it's if if there's a direct correlation to who you are as a speaker, then you should focus on who you're becoming. And we don't become what we don't believe. We don't become what we the we don't we don't grow to the level of what we accept. We live in the lies we we take on. And most of us are living in a reality because of the lies you've been told and you've been you've chosen to believe the lie. So you live in what you believe. This is freaking deep. But anyway, um I wrote down insecure people tend to overeach because they are trying to prove to people that they are helping that you're trying to prove you. There's nothing to prove. You either help them or you don't prove. How about this? Frank Kern, he says, "Prove to people you can help them by actually helping them. Just help them. And if you're still listening or watching, I'll I'm I'm going to wrap up on this thought, okay? If you feel like you're going to run out of content, if you commit to posting it, if you commit to creating it, congratulations. You've identified that you need to grow. If you feel like you're going to run out of ideas, stop watching Netflix. If you feel like you're going to run out of ideas, stop watching the finals. Stop being up to date on all the news and this that. No. Learn. Become interested in stuff. become a learner. Like genuinely, like I mentioned a few minutes ago, you should feel like you're being limited by creating content. This is a crazy take cuz if eight YouTube videos in, you're like, "Now what? You you you just you you maxed out. You you just youaxed. How about that? That's like that's a max that you don't want to do. But if you if you are cons constantly and intentionally feeding yourself, you you won't run out of things to talk about because everything is reference. Everything's a reference point. Stories and illustrations and things that happened to you the other day. Like if you're breathing, you should never run out of content. But you are, this is why when you speak or when you teach, you're just revealing who you are. So if if you run out of stuff or if you get insecure about not knowing enough, no more. It's like get to know more stuff. Um, I will encourage you if you if you're not a reader, become a reader. And I'm not saying to read a lot. I'm just saying to read often. That's like the same the same word. No, what I mean is like I'm a product of reading one proverb a day. Proverbs is the book of wisdom in the Bible. And there's 31 proverbs. half times out of the year there's 31 days out of every month. So I just whatever day of the month it is, I read a proverb. And that that little five, seven minute moment in the word of God has allowed me to operate in life, living by principle and experiencing the truth of the scriptures, like living in the truth of God's word. And that that informs the way I teach. I literally I mean how long was I talking about the the soil? Now now here's my question. Who's going to do that? That's one of zero, bro. That's literally no one can recreate this video. So how do you make content that no one else can copy? You make content only you can make. That's like deep, but it's very obvious. How do you make content no one can copy? You make content no one can recreate because they can't copy it. Omar, you're just a yapper. Uh, no, for sure. But truly, what has happened in your life? What have you discovered? What have you failed at? What have you succeeded at? You liter like if if you've been in business for a very long time, I want you to do this. I want you to take out a Google doc. Maybe maybe that's a that's an archaic way of saying it. I want you to open up AI and I want you to start listing out every single client you had and I want you to share what situation they were in, what they did, and then what happened. So, I want you to create a rolodex of client success and then make videos regardless of the platform. This is not about a platform. Make videos, write emails on those stories and then find the thread in it to see like you have a framework in there. And I know I mentioned in the last podcast um creating frameworks can help people uh understand what you're teaching more. And uh yeah, I guess this is one of those podcasts that you just you end but it's not done. How how long are we at? Dang, I just yapped for 52 minutes. All right. All right. All right. That's That's a lot. Um I'm trying to think if I'm missing anything. I feel I feel good about it. All right. Well, if you're still watching, DM me on Instagram. If you want to take the challenge, click the link in the description. And if you want the gear, click the link in the description. Other than that, next week's episode's about to be heat, bro. It's about to go crazy. Subscribe if you're not subscribed already. If you're listening to the podcast, I love you. Peace out.