ching pornography.
I'm like, right.
Do they want you healthy and robust or do they want you kind of sickly and stupid?
They're like, no sick.
So, I was like making those connections.
I'm like, "So, if you just do the things as a young person that the they seem to hate, you're going to build an amazing life." Like, you're going to have authentic connection.
You're going to know when to put your friend your phone down and really connect with your peers and your friends.
You're going to put down pornography and you're going to have like natural romantic relationships where your sexuality can involve without some false expectation of what sexuality is supposed to be.
you know, you're going to eat foods that feel good and natural to your body.
You're going to have clean water and like just embrace your youth.
Fully embrace your youth and literally think of the system, the they and all the things that they want you to do and kind of just do the opposite and you're going to [ __ ] rock your teenage years.
And until the world completely blows up, go ahead and try to be an all state football player or great at lacrosse or, you know, whatever your aspirations are.
Fully engage in them, you know.
And it was it was a real like revelation for the kids.
But part of it was there like I was questioning them and they were they were putting the pieces together.
Like if there really is a they just think of the things that all that the they want you to do and the things that the they seem to hate and just go the other way.
>> You need to make that into like a one-page PDF.
>> Oh, that would be such a great infographic to kind of visually show all of those things.
>> Yeah.
>> I'll have my team do it.
Actually, I'll have just give me a list and I'll have my team put a really cool graphic together.
>> You know what's interesting?
I wanted to ask you too.
This is like shamelessly self- serving, but product bump >> serve away.
No, but my I'm 55 and but like seven years of micro doing have totally transformed the way that I think and draw connection and see the threads that you're talking about like so and you're such an interesting guy.
So first you know like kind of like you know school of hard knocks you're in the military as a young person.
You had some like ridiculous thing that happened.
I remember you told me where you you were collegebound and then something happened in high school and you got thrown way off track over something that was really kind of stupid.
Um so military and then you you find this aspiration, this great interest in in in brain study and then you become self-educated going through traditional non-traditional um avenues become this world-class brain expert.
So you've got understandings of psychology, sociology, you know, uh therapy, hypnotherapy, neuroanatomy, brain science.
You're a leader.
And now the last four or five years, you've thrown yourself into psychedelics.
>> Yeah.
Like how has h talk to us about like what the psychedelics at the macro and micro doing level have kind of done to transform your brain your thought processes your even your emotional you know going from intellectual understanding to emotional resonance because I found that micro doing has totally helped with the intellectual understanding to emotional resonance like what you had said about >> witnessing theater to fully like emotionally understanding this is theater and I'm not going to get too caught I think over time, uh, my first mushroom journey was me, um, trying to just process what consciousness is.
And I was having between five to 10 seizures a day.
And these are temporal lobe seizures.
Uh, so to kind of give you a brief glimpse of what a temporal lobe seizure is, uh, you're not shaking or anything like that.
You're just kind of like like you're you lose all muscle control like you just got injected with a paralytic.
That's terrifying because like you're losing control over your whole entire body and your mind at the same time and the very beginning of it it's like a roller coaster sensation.
like you're just sitting there talking at dinner or something and it's like roller coaster sensation and then deja vu that is so powerful that it feels like everyone in the entire room is setting you up like they all everyone in the room has access to your memories and they're doing something to you on purpose >> and then then the seizure starts and that's like 2 seconds long.
It's just a really rapid downhill and the seizure is 60 to 90 seconds.
Um, but in that 60 to 90 seconds, you're going to it's like massive psychedelics almost.
And in some of these seizures, I remember I have you're getting memories.
Let's say you're getting memories from like 35 people's different lives over the course of like 35 years and they're randomly like if we have our memories are a little file cabinet during the seizure.
All of those memories from other some other people's life uh other person's life is getting put into your files and all of your folders are getting full of these false memories and then so like if you just if I just have one seizure it takes me three or four weeks to come back to normal where I like I'll remember doing something that never happened in my life.
Uh, and then several times I had this one seizure that was recurring where I I would look down.
I have memories of looking down and seeing breasts and being a woman.
Uh, and I remember I took it somehow out of the seizure one time because seizures come with amnesia.
But I know this woman's social security number.
I know her phone number, her street address.
Uh, I have memories of her being lonely.
me.
It was me.
I remember vacuuming my house.
Uh and my wife and I actually went there in in Tennessee and uh it that's that was my house.
>> Wait, you went to you you you visited the home?
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz I've been I think I mentioned this briefly in the last podcast we all did together.
I've been in the like literally the immediate aftermath of when you had your first seizure in I think 18 months or two years was when we went out for your dinner.
Yeah.
>> At your birthday.
And it's there's a vibration coming off you, this disorientation.
It's like terrifying and heart-wrenching to be around.
But when we sat down at dinner and you were kind of integrating a little bit, you were talking about the yellow sweeping the floor.
You were in a 1970s kitchen.
You were sweeping the floor.
You were a woman.
Um, and you recalled the yellow post-it note on the old pull lever refrigerator.
And you literally knew the numbers.
It was a phone number >> on we we and the person we wrapped it in with Rosie wrote down the phone number and she actually tried to call it but then you went even deeper and you you recalled the like street address and location.
So is that the home from that seizure you went back to?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
Same one >> like third party validation like totally real [ __ ] terrified.
>> But I don't claim that it's some past life.
I don't claim, you know, I mean, I don't have access to the records or anything, but like I remember being in that house even when we when we looked at it.
Um, and I don't I don't claim to know what that is.
I think the more certainty somebody has around this [ __ ] the more full of [ __ ] they are.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, I don't know what that is.
>> And like just trying to explain reality itself is hard enough, much less this break from reality.
So that was a super long way to just say that I I wanted to start I wanted to do some psychedelics so I can kind of like access that state on demand and kind of start exploring what is consciousness.
Uh cuz I just reading about people that get sudden savant syndrome.
Have you ever heard of this?
>> Mhm.
where somebody get in a car accident or something or fall off a ladder and all of a sudden they don't speak English anymore and they speak fluent French and they can play the cello.
Um >> I would I would love for any scientist in the world to explain how that's possible.
And there are thousands of cases and if there's a if there's a theory that we generate our own consciousness and we we generate our own memories and we don't have access to some collective field.
Um, this is a mountain of stuff that says otherwise.
A mountain.
So, if somebody has a theory that all crows are black, how many white crows would it take to fully and completely obliterate that theory?
>> It would only take one.
>> And there's not just one single piece of proof.
There's just a massive mountain of it.
Uh, just that we don't know what consciousness is.
Uh, so I got curious about it and my seizure stopped within 4 days of taking methylene blue and and mushrooms and it was just a regular micro dose.
And within just a few months, all of my memories like resorted themsel out.
like my file clerk, it felt like every time I was doing any journey or something that the file clerk would kind of go down there and take take some hours and hours and go through everything and figure out, oh, that one's not Chase's memory.
I'm going to throw it out.
This one's Chase's.
I'm going to file it up and to kind of get organized again.
And I think over time, it's just the level of empathy that I developed.
I was >> I don't want to say narcissistic, but I was very self-centered.
Uh and I was very much purchased in invested in the idea of separation that I'm separate from you that we're not connected in any way.
Uh I need to be better than other people.
I want to compete in business instead of collaborate.
>> Uh and that's how I started my civilian career is in that kind of in that mindset.
And I'm so grateful that I just had access to this stuff.
And I mean even John's Hopkins is calling it like the most effective drug they ever tested.
I'm probably paraphrasing poorly, but um if you just look at the results, it's the most effective uh psychotherapy drug ever tested in the world.
>> Yeah.
New thing too with this Russian mice study where increased telmir length by 30% as well.
>> Really?
>> Yes.
And then Brian Johnson um you know the kind of like self-promoting biohacker he did a brain analysis on glucose that we did a full brain analysis and even though his glucose levels were like in the top 1% like his blood sugar corrected over the course of a 6-hour 5 gram mushroom journey from like what would be somebody who's diabetic to completely non-diabetic.
So they even think it can correct like blood sugar levels and so forth.
It could be a diabetes cure.
>> Wow.
>> It was crazy.
Yeah.
>> I had no idea.
And this is psilocybin.
>> This is psilocybin.
This is this is psilocybin.
>> Um yeah, I found that I the I have this thing that I talk about um the um the kind of um etheric mycelial network, which is the connection from my heart and like my head and making authentic connection.
And over the seven years of micro doing like those fibers are just so much more pronounced and clear and and like I know when to give, I know when to receive.
I know when the receptors are just not hitting, you know, they're hitting kind of stone.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is something I wanted to ask you about with young kids cuz, you know, as a as a as a conscientious dad raised, you know, who's like highly sees the world and all this charade of insanity that's kind of parade and charade of insanity that's happening before us.
So if if you can deepen your kids empathy, so like my my son, my my 14-year-old son, there's a kid at school who is so self-promoting and so threatened by other people's excellence and size and physicality and he's always like messing with and testing.
And so I've gotten my son to like deepen his empathetic thinking like, okay, why is what's driving this behavior?
Why is this person like this?
You know, what do you think's going on in their home?
So like he's deepened his empathy and he doesn't have like the rage or the anger, but like what does he do about somebody when somebody's still so [ __ ] annoying?
So when somebody's so crippled by their own vanity and insecurity and especially as a young person like they're just vomiting that all over you on a daily basis.
The part that I fell short on is like I can help him deepen his perspective and his empathy, but I didn't know like I can't tell him to go up and give another 14-year-old a hug in the middle of school.
Like that's not necessarily going to work.
So, what's your ad like what's your advice on when you when you >> pull the camera out and your children now have the deeper perspective, but they're still dealing with another annoying teenager?
Like, how do they handle that?
>> I I actually have a thought cuz I think the same thing holds true.
I'd be curious to to get your thoughts as well, Chase.
>> For adults, >> it's I think it comes down to boundaries and there are different levels to where he should let that kid in.
he can still be loving and kind and not his best friend and then just keep him at a distance.
And I think part of that awareness for the other kid is maybe he needs to reorient and and it I I don't know.
I think there I've made the mistake in the past of I mean I've certainly been like that like [ __ ] that guy, right?
And then I've been like a this poor guy.
Okay, let me be there and like try to be a good friend >> and then I let them in too far and then I get, you know, I don't want to say I get taken advantage of because I'm actually very active in in that relationship.
And so that's on me to to not have the discernment about where does this person actually fit in my world.
Yeah.
And so I think it can be very much a an empowering thing to be aware of those things, be curious, be loving and empathetic as you said, but also like not trying to [ __ ] rescue or save anybody.
Well, I mean, as adults, we can as adults, we can kind of we can let the cat out of the bag and we can talk about it, but like what's a trick for a 14, 15, or 16-year-old who's like who's in like a very kind of like hot, you know, testosterone like interaction with somebody where they're just vomiting their insecurity and and bragging and all like h how would you advise a 14 or 17year-old to kind of handle that when they're in that type of situation?
Like what's a technique point?
>> Same as an adult.
one word, archetypes.
Understanding story archetypes.
There's only about seven or eight, some say 12, story archetypes that are woven into our DNA.
And our brains haven't changed in 200,000 years.
So like the archetype of the wounded healer, the savior, the victim, the tragedy mindset, the uh the broken hero, the dark hero.
So like there's some like basic story arc types.
And no matter what you look at, whether it's Toy Story or it or the Dark Knight, they're following these identical things that have been told from time immemorial before recorded history.
these stories were kind of passed down and told.
That's why they stick with us.
>> That's why you haven't seen a new story archetype.
>> Like you don't see Hollywood come up with, "Oh, guess what we did." >> Uh, no.
It's the same stuff because that's what resonates with our the lowest most powerful parts of our brain.
So, and I I'll I'll take this back to court just really quick to show you.
If I'm if I'm trying to persuade a jury and let's say I'm working and my client is suing a big company, the client that I'm working for, they're suing a a big company.
I don't have to mention David and Goliath.
I might just mention a few topics about it to put the archetype of of David and Goliath in your head.
Mhm.
>> And then I might mention a couple of times when you're waiting in line at the DMV for hours and hours and hours and every other little situation where there's a big company who doesn't give a [ __ ] about you and then I mention walking down the hill to fight a battle.
I'll never say David and Goliath directly, but I'll put that story front and center in your mind.
And if I can if I get you to see that this is David and Goliath, that has a beginning and an end.
I'm not putting you at the end.
I I never I never ever ever talk about how the story ends because your brain already knows.
>> I'm talking about this is the moment that this occurs.
So your brain when you go to deliberate in the jury room, you think that it's your decision, but all you're doing is completing the story archetype.
So that's the natural resolution.
So if you if you know the story archetype and I can I can change your view of a situation to see it as a certain archetype, I can I can make you do anything because it's the natural next step in the story.
So what this means in conversation is I've got this friend who is bitching and complaining and all that kind of stuff.
my initial response is going to be to kind of hey man it's not that bad or kind of maybe back away from them which is great like just spend less time with them and figure out a way to get them at their best.
So that's what I always say to people with you got negative family members or something figure out a way to only be there when they're at their best.
But you have to understand that this person is in an in a story arc and they're in a hero's journey of their own.
But he might be or she is in this little victim story and then what they're doing to you by like pulling you down is pissing you off because it's pulling you out of your story arc.
You want to be successful.
You want to be confident.
You want to be happy.
And then you're trying to bring them up.
Guess what you're doing?
You're pulling them out of their story arc.
>> So the first thing you need to do is understand that like they're in an arc type.
So if somebody is in this like downtrodden beat down kind of mindset, they're in some kind of story.
It might be a tragedy, but it might be a case of redemption, then maybe the next chapter for them is when they learn the magic lesson or something, but it's never going to be in the school hallway.
It's not going to be over a a a brunch or something where they get a piece of information.
It's going to be it has to be a transition because that's what the movies tell us.
And you see all this [ __ ] with with Epste and everybody's upset with Epstein.
Why?
Because all of us are deeply internally craving a Steven Spielberg ending for this [ __ ] We think that we need this.
We need that the story archetype to completely unfold.
big evil monster and then big evil monsters friends and then what every movie we've ever seen in our entire life completes that story archetype with some big nasty thing happening to all of them and them all disappearing like the Terminators.
Uh but what we don't realize is that those arc types are wired into our brain number one without language.
It's just the story can be in your brain without any any words.
the story is still there.
And two, that governs how we all of our shoulds, like they should be punished, they should go to jail, this should happen.
Our shoulds are typically governed by little story arcs uh that we don't realize are playing out in our own mind.
So that's a lot of like what we're seeing now.
We don't get the Spielberg ending.
>> Mhm.
And that's a hard right that's the difficult part is that lack of resolution and people can see how they want it to end and so the more they want it to end like that the less likely it's going to end like that right because we are creating this whole thing >> and so so the people listening now who are ready to like get the bad guys have them you know with their pound of flesh which clearly I think in our experience with people that are very highowered It's never going to end that way.
They're either going to get, you know, fakey unalived and brought somewhere and other actors are going to be in.
There's a lot of that going on right now, which I think is pretty new for people to understand.
Certainly for me, like, oh [ __ ] like these people may not have died and they may be taken somewhere.
>> Yeah.
And so >> I hired a forensic uh facial expert uh to look at one of these things of Galain Maxwell.
>> T