No matter what's on the news, my brain 100% registers it all as theater.
>> You had this great line, anybody who thinks they're not susceptible to a scop is completely susceptible.
>> If politics was about results, it wouldn't require a lot of attention.
It wouldn't require performance.
You're watching a play.
We'll see how the season ends.
We'll see how the, you know, the season finale.
We've got understandings of psychology, sociology, therapy, hypnotherapy, neuroanatomy, brain science, and now the last four, 5 years, you've thrown yourself into psychedelics.
My first mushroom journey was me trying to just process what consciousness is.
I was having between 5 to 10 seizures a day, and these are temporal lobe seizures.
You're not shaking or anything like that.
You lose all muscle control.
It's terrifying because like you're losing control over your whole entire body and your mind at the same time.
It takes me 3 or 4 weeks to come back to normal.
My seizures stopped within 4 days of taking methylene blue and mushrooms.
Within just a few months, all of my memories like resort sorted themselves out.
The most modern discoveries in quantum mechanics and quantum neurosychology are starting to prove that our brains are quantum.
Like onethird of the particles inside of our brain are existing in some other place.
What the is going on?
Like where are we in reality?
>> Even if it's just I know, I don't know.
>> Here's the biggest one.
If we can go on a little deep and tangent please.
A little deeper than before.
When the last time we we did a podcast together, you had this great line you're talking about.
Anybody who thinks they're not susceptible to a scop is completely susceptible to a scop.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was thinking a lot about this as well because, you know, with the last election, it seemed that things were just so bad.
Like when you have an understanding of scops and and how we're being lied to and manipulated, the last administration was so bad.
It was so egregious.
I mean, it didn't even seem like our president was our president.
there were changing bodies and faces and earlobes and chins and it was so [ __ ] bizarre.
So hoping that Trump could be somebody different, you know, with my, you know, with some serious caveats and reservations, I threw my support and energy and belief behind it, hoping.
Um, and now I feel like, oh, I was completely SCP.
Um, and I know that you had kind of I don't know if you still are, but for a time period you were kind of in the like the outer inner circle like going to Mara Lago and getting invited some of the think tank things and seemed to have some interaction with Cash Patel and maybe Danny Bojingo.
I never know how to pronounce his name, but like how are you feeling as a SCOP expert?
Did you get a little SCOP?
Did you get caught or did you were you just going along for the to see what would happen the the career um aspirations and trajectory like given what's happened with the administration?
How are you feeling right now?
Did you get hustled?
>> I don't think I did.
I I only got involved with people that are adjacent to the administration through trial consulting.
Uh so it's not like they sought out me for any political reason at all.
But I have this thing in my brain where no matter what happens, no matter what's on the news, my brain 100% registers it all without any exception as theater.
>> And there's no exception in my brain.
Even if like there's real stuff going on, my brain registers it all as theater.
And the one thing I I told my kids is if politics was about results, it wouldn't require a lot of attention.
It wouldn't require performance and cameras and all this kind of stuff.
They would just do the results and and that would be important.
Uh so no matter what I see and the moment like I start to like I hear something on the news and I'll start to feel like, oh [ __ ] that's going to be amazing.
I get excited about it.
that little part of my brain smacks it down and be like that you're watching a play.
>> You're watching a movie right now.
>> And if you just kind of approach it from that angle, you're you're just kind of like, well, we'll see how the season ends.
We'll see how the you know the season finale.
>> Yes.
>> And that's what it is.
How long did that uh that kind of intellectual now into emotional uh process transformation take from really like when you first recognize it?
Because I think like Cal and I like oh we know this is theater but I still get caught up.
I'm like damn it really come on you know.
>> Yeah.
I think uh it it took maybe a year of just like only because I dug into it.
M.
>> So if you just read Plato, he warned us about all this [ __ ] >> so long ago.
Plato invented the matrix, >> but you know the concept of the movie The Matrix with the Plato's allegory of the cave.
>> And uh that I have merch in our store, like one of our t-shirts that we sell at my company uh has a a big logo on it right here that says Plato's Cave Search and Rescue Team.
>> Yes.
U just because I I kind of got addicted to I want to wake as many people up as I can.
It feels like and I don't say this like oh look how awake I am.
>> Um I'm not awakened fully.
I don't think there's anybody 100% awakened or anything but I just have this craving in me to dedicate my the rest of my life to exposing the theater of it all.
And we don't need to like expose a whole lot of people and name names and be one of those YouTubers who pisses people off and leaves you upset about stuff, but just exposing like all if you go back to one quote from Alan Watts and I have no idea what the your question even was that I'm answering right now, but >> the you the how long did the genesis take in your own >> Yeah.
mind and demeanor before like I understand we're living in theater to like now being completely emotionally objective and not getting caught up.
You said about a year.
>> Yeah.
>> And I've never put a bumper sticker on any of my vehicles, but I did finally about a month ago.
>> And it's an Allen Watts quote.
It says, "Almost all of our suffering comes from taking very seriously what God built for fun." Uh, and I think that's that's the real thing.
Like if if somebody is actually awakening, there's no moment of enlightenment where you feel better than anybody.
You just be like, "Wow." And you kind of feel a little embarrassed like, "I took all that [ __ ] so seriously.
I thought everything was such a big deal.
I thought I was such a big deal.
Look how special I am." >> U, and then you just, it's so relaxing.
I think it's peaceful, but it's I think it's boring at first.
Yeah, I agree.
I think in in my just journey and certainly not to where you are with the theater.
Um I can bite for it a little bit and also the the the uh the kind of overcorrection is like this is all a [ __ ] joke there, you know?
So you can get a little bit negative about it.
And I think where I've landed is >> holy [ __ ] this is so interesting.
And and what I try to remind my friends that are in the inquiry of, you know, certainly with your work and what the [ __ ] is going on, it's like, yeah, it's it's like let's not take it too seriously.
Like what a timeline that we're in right now.
Holy [ __ ] everything is getting exposed.
And instead of going down into the darkness, which I know you and I have talked about going down these rabbit holes, like it's dark and I think it's necessary to explore them, but to live there, you will just see darkness everywhere.
But just to get like what you need and pop out of it and then just watch it all unfold and allow everyone to be where they're at and through conversations like this try to meet different people where they're at to further expose what's going on so that they can eventually live in this this orientation that okay like let's just be love and light like let's not come in again too negative on this stuff.
I mean, some people you do need to shake their shoulders a little bit, be like, "Dude, what the [ __ ] How do you not see this, but also it's I think it's fascinating." And yeah, there's a lot of dark [ __ ] out there.
There are people that are being manipulated just like we have been throughout the course of our lives.
And yeah, there was this moment like, "Wow, what a [ __ ] idiot.
I believed all this stuff." And then when you >> thought it was all real.
when you can see the humor in it and just laugh at yourself like holy [ __ ] >> The hard part is children, man.
It's like, >> you know, you've got you've got two teenagers still.
>> Three.
>> Three.
>> Yeah.
>> So, >> well, you asked this question.
>> Yeah.
We tal we talked about this at men's group but I I I can kind of do my spiel in a minute but how do you the whole even though it might have been false the the fabric and foundation of society that we could have some stable footing of like when we were all kids you know we might have thought our government was scummy but we didn't necessarily now have evidence that they're psychotic baby eating occultists you know uh who gather for sex and blood ritual.
you know, >> how do you talk to your teenagers about the world that we're living in?
You know, like how how are you counseling and advising them?
I'd love to I'm sure a lot of parents would love to hear that.
>> Uh, so I I brought them up with one big question in their head about other when it comes to other human beings.
So every time we encountered any situation, I would ask them,"What does that person want me to think about them?" So what what do they want to show?
And then that was until they were about 9 years old.
So they would see bumper stickers on the back of some Subaru or something >> with Marathon running and like Ron John Surf Shop and all those kind of >> Yeah.
>> all that kind of stuff.
And I and I'd ask my daughter like what what do they want us to think based on this?
What does the car want us to think?
Not what is it telling us?
What does it want us to think?
Those are two different things.
>> So my daughter would be like, well, uh, I run marathons.
I'm healthy.
I go surfing.
Uh, and it talks about communities, the fraternity they were in.
And so it says, I make good friends.
I have good friends.
I'm in a lot of communities.
And it also means I'm a nice person and I'm going to be a good friend to you.
and I'd like to be a friend uh to somebody.
And then I 10 11 years old, we kept going and like what would they be afraid of if that was true?
And that's question number two.
>> And then you start seeing so you cannot help but have empathy if you start seeing the world that way.
Unless you're a psychopath, like you're seeing it in everybody else but not yourself.
Um, so like in the first stages of their life, it's what does what does that thing or that person want me to to feel about them?
It's like somebody walking through an airport with really obnoxious, loud clothing on.
What do they want me to think?
Not I need attention.
That's not what they want you to think.
>> That's what that's saying.
Right?
So the difference is like I I need attention or I want you to pay attention to me.
And what does that what would they be afraid of if that were true is question number two.
So that the way you would answer that is like well what if they didn't if I didn't think what he wanted that would mean what for them that would mean isolation being ignored uh and ultimately being lonely.
So we see somebody like that that has this loud [ __ ] on in an airport that's kind of annoying at first and then you realize this is a fear of loneliness.
And all of a sudden, you see yourself.
You see the loneliness that you're trying to hide, that you hide from your friends.
You see the shame that you conceal from from everybody when you're on Zoom meetings or at work.
And you're just like, "Holy [ __ ] everybody's suffering.
Everyone's suffering." And I think it gives you a tremendous amount of empathy.
And the second level of this is just having your kids get into the mindset of being able to zoom out and teaching your kids as early as possible about camera angle.
So like if I can just move your camera uh and drastically change your perspective of a situation, I can fix PTSD.
That's what fixes PTSD.
That's why people go on a giant mushroom uh journey or a psychedelic journey and they're like, "Wow, my PTSD is gone." It's perspective shifting is the only thing that really happens there.
So, when we have like loneliness, depression, PTSD, getting pissed off at the world, like you want to uh tell your friends it's not a big deal, like focus like focus on the good things.
If you just shift perspective, you can solve so many problems that that people have.
and teaching your kids to grab their little camera and be aware, cognizant of I'm looking at this from this little angle right here.
I'm zoomed in on one little fiber of this carpet right here.
When if I just took your camera and zoomed out like you do on Google Maps to where you can see the stars like behind the the planet and stuff, >> that that fiber is not important anymore.
>> Like I start to see, oh, it's not a big deal.
So, it's it's all about not just zooming out, but viewing something from a more mature perspective, even if it's in your past.
Like that thing happened to you in middle school.
I got kicked in the balls in front of a lot of kids in middle school, and it was really embarrassing.
And I feel like that permanently scarred me.
But just going back and kind of revisiting that from a mature perspective.
The perspective shift is the only thing that needs to change.
You don't need to like drop a backpack full of trauma and and drop it on the ground.
If I just teach my kids and my friends maybe to change perspective and to that they are in control of perspective, you can make such a shift in people's lives.
That was a super long answer to your question.
>> And I think the followup would be because this is this pertains to what you were bringing up.
What about your uh your kids' friends who are coming to you and they're like, "Okay, dude, what the [ __ ] is going on?" and they're living in a home that maybe still believes this is not theater, this is all like, yeah, the government's taking care of you and the FDA is taking care of you and everyone's got your best interest in mind.
How do you kind of plant seeds for them?
Because they're they're seeing something in you that is more resonant.
They don't quite understand it because they've been brainwashed, let's say.
How do you start to open that up in a um in an kind of intentional way where you're not breaking their brain when they're not quite ready for it?
Even though that may be the best thing to happen.
>> Yeah.
Uh I would and I have done this with some of my kids' friends and it's just the same question.
You're just taking it on a larger scale.
You're saying like when you consume this media or when you watch this thing just teaching them to ask themselves the question like what do they want me to believe right now?
What are they asking me to believe and what's the assumption that's being made right now?
And typically what I'll teach my kids friends is the way I'm a trial I work as a trial consultant.
Uh which is where a lot of my income comes from.
I know nothing about the law for the record here.
Um but when it happen when this happens the way that I am able to win trials and the way that you can persuade anybody if you're a leader or a boss is I just get you to feel clever.
That's it.
>> So I'll have one idea here and one idea here and I'll I'll get your brain to think, "Oh, you know what?
I bet those things snap together like two little Legos.
And if I can get you to feel clever, then you will automatically accept the idea because it came from within.
Anything that comes from within our own mind, we cannot resist.
>> So all I have to get you to do is adopt this new belief without telling you what to think.
It's exactly the same as when you're watching the news and they're like, "A local Austin woman found missing today.
neighbors report that earlier today she was seen arguing with her boyfriend details after the break.
Uh but then like you're watching that and you're like, "Oh, I know what happened." >> And you get that little moment of feeling clever uh just because these two little details got put in front of you.
And if you can do that in life, uh you can get people to do a lot.
But so instead of doing this to those kids, I'm teaching the kids about when there's two pieces of information and there's no string between them, they make you put the string uh between the ideas.
That should terrify you and that should be very scary.
The only two things I've ever told my kids should terrify them.
Number one, when you have two ideas and nothing in between them and you your brain starts putting them together, number one.
And number two is if any grown-up in the world ever asks you to keep a secret.
>> Can you can you expand upon the first one where there's um two ideas and then there's not a thread between them?
Kind of just flush that out for me a little bit.
>> Yeah.
So um just like the news thing.
So if someone says um this geopolitical conflict is happening at the same time they're saying that this person is in trouble in this country >> and you're not getting a string between them but they they're pushing the ideas close enough together where you're like oh I bet this Saudi prince was involved with this attack on this one thing just because you know ideas are always magnetic um especially if they have any anything in common.
So I get any two ideas close enough to each other, they become magnetic in your brain, but you're the one that assembles them.
>> Okay.
So basically what you're saying is that's that's classic media manipulation.
>> Yes.
>> So you're you're teaching your kids to be aware of media manipulation.
>> Yeah.
It's classic manipulation for everything in courtrooms.
Uh >> right, >> you could win a lot of trials just getting good at that one skill.
>> Right.
I had an interesting moment with the my 17-year-old was over with four or five friends and they were all talking about the Epstein files and and the you know at the time of this shooting we're in I don't know the 15th or 16th day of the Iran war and all the kids were talking about it and you know I I asked the kids I'm like all right so they because they said to me one of the kids says like what do we do like you know we're we're we're juniors we're about to be seniors like we play football like we're looking at college is like like what do we do and I was like well interesting time to be alive that's for sure like the foundations that generations before you could stand upon even if they were false there was firm footing there you know and we could build a life and now you're like walking on um an ice sheet that's broken apart and everywhere you step it's unstable and it's tittering and tottering I'm like and there really seems to be like a they know so there there proverbial they there really seems to be a they.
>> So I asked the kids, I'm like, "What is it that the they seem to hate?" >> Cuz they seem to definitely hate certain things and point want to point you in certain way.
So like, "What do they hate?" And the kids are like I'm like, "Do they seem to hate like vulnerability and authenticity?" Cuz they certainly want you stuck on your phones all the time.
They're like, "Yeah." So I'm like, "Well, they do they do they seem to love God or do they seem to hate God?" They're like, "Well, you know, they seem to kind of hate God." Like, do they seem to love prayer and meditation or they seem to hate it?
like, well, they seem to hate that.
Do they do they want you having like authentic and real connections?
They're like with friends and no, they kind of want us on our phones.
I'm like, right.
Do they want you watching pornography or having like natural romantic relationships where your sexuality can evolve?
They're like, no, they kind of want us wat