er areas that you're looking to explore?
Would you go back into that 5h hour experience?
Where do you kind of sit with that as your kind of next frontier?
I'm definitely going back.
Um, y'all should come and I'll I'll if if either of you guys want to do it, I'll sit with you the whole time and I'll sit there and hold your hand the whole time.
It's an amazing I mean that it it will permanently change you in in that when you come back here for the rest of your life, no matter what, no matter how seductive the world is, for the rest of your life, you're going to know that it's fake.
>> Yeah, I'm super curious.
I know you're hard no.
I'm sure I know you.
>> No, I'm No, I'm not.
I'm >> Well, you're terrified of doing the big journeys and stuff, so I'm curious.
is the biggest of jerks, but it's definitely it's not it's not it's um um >> I'm not a judgment either.
>> No, but there's um there's a really nice um Oh, hold on.
Um Kyle Kingsbury Godsbury um um I forgot Godzy's first name.
>> Eric Godsy.
>> Eric Godsy.
So um Eric Godsy has this expression called the death cookie.
So like whenever you're shown something that you really don't want to do, you got to eat it.
You got to eat that death cookie.
So I'm so aware of like the death cookies, I'm like, "Oh no, I I should do it.
I want to do it.
Yeah.
But I'm I'm terrified of it, I think, in a good and kind of, you know, a respectful way.
>> Well, there's there's there's a balance of terrified.
It sometimes terrified could be that's a signal like not yet.
I think having a healthy like fear is the right word, but like okay, this is a big experience whether it's >> it's a death in a way.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
But I'm also like very curious and and >> would love to >> and Terrence McKenna had the best phrase for it I've ever heard in my life >> and he called it death by astonishment.
>> Mhm.
>> Which just perfectly encapsulates that entire experience.
It's like it's so astonishing in a way that you will never ever be able to describe this to another person.
And it that's gonna piss you off.
Like it pisses me off that I can't like I can't convey what happens on DMT to another person >> and it's it's a chemical that we make in our own body >> and it's a felony in almost the entire country.
We make it in our body and it's a felony.
>> Yeah.
Well, talk about the clown world inversion that we live in, you know, Satan's little season.
Let's invert everything, you know.
I mean >> Oh, yeah.
My wife and I have to drive past uh three vape stores and two liquor stores to go pick up our illegal raw milk.
Right.
Right.
Which has to be also labeled not for human consumption.
>> Right.
Right.
Um, no.
That's um as a big raw milk person, I uh it's crazy.
Here in uh Texas, they changed the law and um they like they can't sell it anymore, but you have to buy it as like a gift card.
It's like a whole weird thing.
So, you can't you can't just go to the market and buy it.
Um some farmers kind of just don't pay any attention to it because the enforcement is slack, but technically like you have to order in advance as like a gift card.
It's like a weird kind of loophole.
>> Wow.
In Virginia, you have to own a piece of the cow.
So like several families will own it a part of a cow or a part ownership in a cow.
And if because the Virginia law is if you own the cow, you can no one can tell you that you can't drink milk out of your own cow.
So >> So tip technically when I go to pick up raw milk, it's from my cow that I own.
Uh and that's what I'm taking home.
That's a great workaround right there.
>> Yeah.
>> What about you, Chef?
Like what have you been working on?
I know obviously the max deck came out at the kind of the end of the year.
>> Can we talk about this max deck?
>> I'd love to.
>> I take this every day now.
>> You do?
>> So you sent me a freebie >> Yeah.
>> bag and it took me like a month to get to it and I because you texted me every week.
Did you try the max stack?
Yeah.
>> But now I do it every day.
Um so this is like I have a little lineup.
I have a rolling like cart >> pharmacopia.
>> Yeah, that's has my daily stuff on it so I can kind of bring it if I need to pull it in my office or whatever.
Uh, and max stack is like the far left and I go from left to right on this card every day.
Says max stack, creatine, and then other stuff, iodine.
>> But this max stack, can you te talk about what's in it?
Because just looking at the ingredients list is overwhelming to me.
So what what we wanted to do with the maxac max does not have our secret ingredient in it.
So it's non it's non-csychoactive has no psilocybin uh which we call for obvious purposes the brain supreme mushroom blend or active ingredient.
So what we wanted to do with max stack is we spent years researching like almost I mean with mushrooms there's so many things that complement mushrooms at the psychedelic level.
You know it's like basically just love and thinking good thoughts complement you know your mushroom dose.
There are certain ingredients that definitely can complement and boost a micro and a macro dose.
So we wanted to create a product that basically we threw the kitchen sink at from a a therapeutic and and ritual standpoint also like an everyday usage.
So we basically wanted to add every known ingredient in the world that benefits a micro and a macro dose.
>> So uh mushrooms, adaptogens, aminos and cacao.
So we created a base of ceremonial cacao and son cinnamon.
And then we have um 22 other ingredients, chaga, rayi, cortiseps, lion's mane.
And then we've got about 10 different minerals and adaptogens.
And then 10 different amino acids and creatine um in this base of very high-grade ceremonial cacao and colon cinnamon.
Now it has to be cinnamon because at high doses, regular cinnamon is is delletterious for the kidney.
It's not so good.
Cellon cinnamon, the true cinnamon, you can take that 5 g, 10 grams at a time.
But other cinnamons you don't want to you don't want to do that with.
Um it's a different type of bark for a different type of cinnamon tree.
Only the son cinnamon is is healthy at high doses.
So um it's a little bitter.
I tell everybody that because we wanted to leave it unsweetened.
I do it in my So I do like for me the new founders thing is the which is what you did this morning is the max stack with a black stack.
So it's a 300 milligram micro dose um with the max stack and like energy focus.
So, I make a max stack latte.
I actually just throw everything in the blender and then I just pour it through a strainer.
So, I do I do some coffee, which now I do less coffee and I do a half calf, half decaf, and then I throw in the max stack.
I'll actually add a little more cinnamon, a little creatine, local raw honey.
Um, pour the hot water, blend that up for like 45 seconds.
Then I pour in like some raw milk or some uh organic heavy cream and then just pour that through a strainer.
>> So, after about 3 hours, you you're ready to go.
It takes about 3 hours to make that drink.
>> Jesus.
>> No, honestly, it's in the blender.
It's fast because if you did in a French press separately and made the French press, it's if you just go in the blender with your ground coffee and then pour it through a strainer, >> it's 45 seconds.
You know, you can let it sit there, pour it through, and then and then you're set.
But in terms of like if you thought if you compared that with opening up let's say you took onethird of the supplements that are in max stack like even from a time standpoint I think the making of the max stack is still faster than if you opened up seven different supplement jars.
So probably saving you time.
>> Yeah.
And traditionally people would like make their coffee and then add this.
>> Yeah.
just or just make your coffee and just stir the Mac stack in.
And then with all the with all the amino acids and minerals, there's a little bitterness there.
It's kind of like a coffee-like bitterness.
Some people really like that.
I add a little bit of of local raw honey or some maple crystals or some kind of hippie sugar in some way.
>> Um, but yeah, that was our idea that we wanted and I've used it ceremonial now, too, which is really great.
>> Like I've I've put four grams in it, blended it up because we wanted to test it that way.
>> Wow.
>> And it was it was deep.
Yeah.
And it's also it was it was interesting because the journey um like it was it was the the um the ascent is a little faster.
The journey's great and the descent is a little faster.
So you're in and you're out a little quicker and the journey is interesting there because there's like a nutritional sustenance in the journey.
So like hunger pangs or other things that can kind of sometimes mess with you.
We're just totally satiated.
So it's like a really wonderful 4hour >> dude >> ride.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
>> You know what I wound up doing?
I The creatine that I take every day is like Walgreens brand.
>> No.
No.
You got to get the stuff with the German approval.
The creatine monohydrate.
>> It is creatine monohydrate.
>> Yeah.
But there's like honestly I've asked a couple people about that.
I'm not sure.
Something about there's a German patent on creatine that it's like a little Sean Wells would be the one to answer, but I I get a brand called Momentous.
Clean creatine.
But what I wound up doing is I take that little tub of creatine and I would dump it in this bag and mix it up.
Yeah.
>> So that every day I'm not having to do two different things.
I try to like minimize this >> this thing I do in the morning.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Cuz we're we're at one gram or depends if you do one scoop or two scoops.
We're at 500 or or one gram of creatine.
And probably you want to be around five to maybe 10 grams of creatine.
So you can certainly add more creatine.
>> Yeah.
I dumped it in there and it I don't keep it in this bag.
Like the bag is beautiful though.
I have a like a glass cylinder thing that I take it out of and every day I'll kind of roll it on its side and then give it a couple of back and forths and then scoop out of it.
>> Yeah.
You get your technique down.
I have a lot of athletes who are doing the max.
So, particularly for like morning athletics where you don't want to eat.
So, let's say like you got a pickle ball or you got your workout and you don't want to necessarily eat um before your workout.
I have some professional athletes and amateur athletes.
They'll do the max stack with their micro dose.
If you can time it out like 60 to 75 minutes before like kickoff or main game time, you're going to hit flow state.
To combine a micro dose with a with a max stack before your morning workout, like an hour or so, it's flow state workouts.
>> Wow.
>> I get a lot of feedback from athletes and and just gym guys and everything.
They take I just saw a guy yesterday who's a you know 55y old dude now was a bodybuilder still likes to train hard.
He's like dude they got to pull me out of the gym on athlete.
I time it out like an hour before and the workouts are just great.
>> You actually gave these to me.
So could you give me a like walk me through what each one of these are?
>> Okay so black stacks are extra strength.
So we take a 300 mgram micro dose and we blend it with um nano curcumin ginger and vitamin C.
So, it's our it's our extra strength, triple strength.
300 milligrams can be a lot for some people with a micro dose.
For me, it's kind of a sweet spot.
Um, and so that that's our extra strength formula.
You know, you can we don't nec we really created Brain Supreme as a micro doing supplement, but you can tune up and take a couple black stacks and hit a little cruising altitude.
If you're going to do anything more than that, I think you should work with just straight mushrooms and so forth.
Yeah.
Um, but you know, if you got an off day on a weekend and it's in a responsible setting, you can take three or four and you know, just kind of go for a little bit of a marvel at the uh central Texas clouds for a couple hours.
But that's our extra strength formula.
So, um, and that actually uh, in terms of cost per most expensive ingredient, that has 9 g total active ingredient because it's 30 capsules at 300 milligrams, which is 9 g.
Every other product is 6 g.
Every other product has more complimentary ingredients, but the the cost by most expensive ingredients.
So, Black Stack, if you can handle 300 milligram micro dose, it's kind of the most uh cost-effective um product as well.
Um and then our flagship formula is genius.
That's our most neutropic formula.
So, it's um kind of classic neutropics, elthenine, elyroine, alphagpc, um green tea extract, guana blended with 100 milligrams of our active ingredient.
And then feel good is our kind of heart oriented formula, heart emotions, libido.
We have some nano curcumin in there.
Sorry.
We have um some nanotized um CBD in there.
Um and um uh Damian, another kind of heart, emotion, mood.
I like actually um I take feelood the least from a micro doing standpoint, but feel good's really kind of five or six capsules on a weekend.
It really is a groovy great feeling.
It's really fun for a little cruising altitude.
You do feel loving and just mellow.
>> Um it's great for love making.
It's good for sex.
It's It's like 10% better.
It's like more meaningful and just like, you know, touch and and sensations and so forth.
It's good.
And then athlete is our workout formula.
Um so we blend that with um it's 100 milligrams of the proprietary mushroom that we blend with um then uh different elements for recovery and heart rate and cardiovascular support and so forth.
Um stacking athlete and genius is a really good formula as well too.
If you're like a if you're a workout person, um what we call our performance protocol, which is um an an every other day or one day on, two day off, slightly higher micro dose.
You can stack athlete and genius about an hour or 75 minutes before your game or workout.
My professional athletes will do practice day and game day because you want to keep it in your system.
You never want to be disregulated for when you want to peak for game day.
So you do a practice day with a performance dose and you save it for game day.
So that's a a really effective formula for that.
Um and then just kind of mixing it up.
The standard protocol is what we call supplement dosing.
Five days on, two days off, best in the morning, best on an empty stomach, best with a glass of lemon water or with max stack.
And then once you figure out like where your sweet spot is, perceptible, non- intoxicating, not hallucinatory, then you can start to then you can start to adjust, you know.
So start with one capsule, scale up, find your area where you're like, "Oh, I'm most tuned on.
I'm I'm I'm most productive." And then that's your sweet spot.
Then you can play around like start with the supplement protocol, really understand these products.
Some people like one in the morning and then they like one at 1 pm.
Some people if they take it in the afternoon, it's a little sleep disruptive because your brain is still active.
Some people are like, you know, I want to feel it more.
Like I appreciate a micro dose, but I'm going to go to performance dosing because I really want to get tuned up twice a week.
Yeah.
And then, >> you know, you can you burn off the more noticeable demonstrative sensation in the gym.
and then the benefits of the micro dose linger throughout the day and the rest of the day and and so forth.
But yeah, so that's what we're doing.
But I mean the for us the proof's in the pudding.
Um because we grow by, you know, we grew by 200% from year 1 to year two and we grew by another 120% from year two to year three.
And we have the highest conversion rate, I believe, of any supplement on all of Shopify's website.
So, we have a 66% conversion rate from one-time buyer to subscriber, which in the supplement space is kind of unheard of.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that means that we're we're doing something that's that's working.
>> You are.
>> Yeah.
But your students have been amazing.
You know, they've really they use it as part of the NCI protocol and so forth.
>> Yeah.
And nothing I make them do, but Yeah.
>> I know a lot of them uh a lot of them love your stuff.
you've come in as a guest speaker to our our elite kind of the VIP inner circle of mine.
>> Yeah, it's always fun >> and uh we're amazing people and I know they were all very appreciative of the education because it's it's one thing to be able to just like oh somebody says oh I can find I didn't know I could order this.
I didn't know like it it could get mailed to my house.
It's not labeled in a way that uh somebody might get in trouble or anything.
And the second part is like, okay, I now I can order it, but I need an education.
>> I need a I need a course.
I need something, which is why like I tell everybody, uh, even like the lady that was next to me on the plane on the way over here, I was telling her about this.
I was like, not only can you buy it there, there's a course and Adam's got a course on brains.co.
You can take this course.
It's going to give you everything that you might need to know about doing micro doing in a healthy way and effective, a way that's actually going to help your life.
>> Great.
Well, thanks.
I'm actually about to redo the re-shoot the whole course, too, because I finished the home studio.
>> Oh, good.
>> Yeah, the home.
We got a little home media and podcasting thing going on now, too.
So, about to redo the whole course as well.
>> Love it.
>> So, we'll do version two.
>> Dude, you're the best, man.
It's so great talking to you.
And then uh like for Cal and I, it never gets old.
We know that you're Cal and I are such good friends now.
So, it's like when you text, I'm like, "Okay, let me tell Cal because we'd rather like share the love." Yeah, man.
And I love just like this is I mean, aside from a microphone right here, it just feels like we're we're hanging out because well, I've known you guys for a year or two now and >> I've known you for a while now.
>> Two.
Yeah.
Over two years.
>> And uh >> Thank you, Darius.
>> Yeah.
It just feels like we're friends hanging out.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
And I love it too because you you texted us yesterday morning and I was in Las Vegas getting ready to come back uh yesterday and then I was supposed to leave this morning super early for Florida for golf and I was just like on the fence like should I change my flight?
And then the text came through that you're in town for two days.
Do you guys want a podcast Sunday?
I'm like that probably makes the most sense.
And then I waited five minutes.
I'm like okay let's do this.
And it worked out perfectly.
Yeah.
But before we wrap, I do want to hear um this next project you're you're doing.
>> Yeah, we're uh I'm building a TV station basically uh inside of a building in Virginia and it's going to be daily news as a daily news channel except we're going to you know like the schizophrenic where there's like the red thread that connects everything.
>> We're in a non-s schizophrenic way.
We're going to show you how everything is actually connected, what's being used as a distraction, every single piece of the news every single day, all of the scops and the manipulation that's happening throughout the media, throughout the uh global events, the geopolitics that are going on.
And then what's being used as a distraction, who's gaining money from this uh this politician, you know, this thing happened over here, but this politician went missing three days right before it happened.
We're going to try to go into like everything and it's just fact-based only, no opinion.
Uh no crazy uh theories or anything like that.
We will never uh take guidance or direction from any marketers or advertisers.
We have an open records policy where our entire bank account uh will be open to the public.
And we have a policy that u an instant public policy that if any any correspondence or documentation ever asks 