All right, if you're watching this, there's about a 99% chance you recognize one of these three people. They have completely different services. They [music] operate in different niches, but there is one thing they all have in common. Off just one impression, you know exactly who they are, what they [music] stand for, and that they are world class at what they do. That's reputation. That's authority. And if they ever offered you help, let's be honest, you wouldn't [music] think twice. This is the power of a strong ecosystem because without one, growing your business as a coach, consultant, or online service provider will always feel like an uphill battle. Especially in today's saturated market where ad costs are the highest they've ever been, and almost every coach or service provider looks like a literal one to one copy of the next with the same offers, same products, and same content. But what if the very thing that makes this whole market feel so saturated could actually make you stand out? Because that's exactly what happened to me. Instead of playing the same game as everyone, I made one fundamental change in my approach. And that has led me to scale my business and hit a peak month of over 100K in cash and 177K in revenue last July as a solo consultant. And the best part is I did this with less than 5,000 followers, only eight YouTube videos posted, and less than 2.4,000 in ad spend. All while maintaining an 89% profit margin. [music] And in this video, I'll walk you through the exact details of how I scaled my business with a simple ecosystem in just three steps so you can stand out, build trust at scale, and sign clients who genuinely want to work with you potentially without even going on a sales call. Welcome to episode 3 of my minieries where I share how you can build a 50K per month coaching or service business with an 80% profit margin and a ton of freedom. Let's get right into it. All right, so I'm going to be covering the three steps so you can build a 50K per month ecosystem, whether it's for your info or service [music] business. Now, real quick, the third step of this entire video is going to be the most important because it puts everything into perspective. So, please make sure to stay until the end where I break everything down so you have a full idea of how to approach the market. Now, unfortunately though, just posting isn't enough to claim you have a personal brand or to get clients like the majority of business owners are doing. And that's for two very specific reasons. The first is that the market is currently facing an all-time low in trust. This isn't going to be going up anytime soon. And it's for the right reasons. Because in the past 6, seven [music] years, there's been so much [ __ ] on the internet. Let's not even get started with the amount of AI content there is right now, the amount of [ __ ] there is, but most of all, how many service providers have been making crazy and ludicrous claims, coming up with all these [music] perfect 90-day offers never to deliver on them, and just overall how many scandals we see popping off left and right on the internet. Right now, the point is that the info and service market is marked by a lot of people who have not been doing things for the right reason. And so it's logical that your market is seeing everyone else out there. They need help, but they don't know who to trust. And the second reason is because of the large amount of competition. Because there's so many players in the market, it's pretty hard to find the right players who do it correctly, the people who actually serve in the right way. And most of all, almost everyone is a literal copycat one to one version of the other. Just scroll through Instagram and you'll see [music] what I mean. But then here's the interesting thing. Even though there's so many people out in the market, there's also so many others who are growing [music] fast, doing things right, and scaling their business. And that's for the reason that people work with people they trust. [music] If they don't trust you as a service provider, well, people aren't going to work with you. [music] And so, this is where ecosystems come into play. But first things first, let me [music] cover this. What exactly is an ecosystem? I've used the term a few times now. Let's get us into the right fundamentals here so we're all speaking the same language. The best way for me to explain what an ecosystem is is to use the example of the brand Apple. Now, you guys all know the brand Apple. If you don't, I'm a little disappointed. I don't know what to say. But anyways, as you guys know, they have different products, a mix of tech products, physical ones like my iPhone here or the iPad I'm recording this on, and also software or online solutions. Now, [music] in short, Apple is one of the coolest brands ever, but it's not because of their product lineage. is because of the way they have created such a strong ecosystem of products and such a strong brand that people are literally waiting hours in line to buy their products. Here's the thing. Apple [music] sells services, they sell physical products, but they all solve one problem. Remember the offer thing we talked about, by the way, in episode 2, they all solve one problem. Helping modern humans integrate premium technology seamlessly into their lifestyle. At the end of the day, that's what Apple's really good at. Just creating all these products, Mac over here, iPhone, iPad that all just kind of work together seamlessly. [music] But here's where it gets interesting. What does Apple actually really compete on? Is it technical specifications? Do they have the best tech in their products? Well, they do have good tech, but I [music] can bet with you that there's Samsung or I don't know, Android devices that have better tech in them. Is it a unique product? Well, a phone, an iPad, a Mac. They're all just commodity products. Phone, computer, tablet. Is it user experience? To an extent, you could say the user experience from someone using an iPhone and the entire Apple suite is pretty good. But then again, there are raging fans inside the Samsung lineup who also find the experience a lot better. [music] So the point is that they're not actually competing on any of these three points. What they're really competing on is trust. And this is really cool because no matter what Apple launches, their users trust the value of this brand and their products so much [music] just purely of the fact that it's Apple. Let's just talk about the Apple goggles which completely flopped. I think it was a cool product. I didn't buy it. But I know so many people who just jumped right at it because it's the next revolutionary thing because it's Apple. You see, as a result, Apple has one of the most loyal customers with an average lifetime value of $8,000 over 20 years. So, if someone just literally buys anything from Apple, they're set to continue buying for the next 20 years. And I'm already well over that. I'm not probably 7.5K in the past 5 years. Just thinking all the products I own and I'm not about to leave anytime soon. [music] The point is that trust is the thing that Apple's ecosystem has done so well and it's the exact same thing in the info and service market because in our market there are thousands of coaches, thousands of service providers all creating noise. It's quite literally the Spider-Man meme where they're all kind of the same and it's like well you do what I do type [ __ ] They're saying the same things. They have the same products, same offers, the same content, the same templates. [music] Yet time and time again, we see that some creators, some coaches just rise to the top, even though in a way they're selling the same thing, just like someone would choose an iPhone over a Samsung Galaxy phone. And this is where it gets really interesting. And if you really ask the critical question of, hey, what sets you apart? Why should anyone buy from you? Especially in a market where we're all sending consulting or services to help a business grow, for example. Well, the only real answer to this isn't your product or service. It's the fact that your audience trusts you over another. That's the only real reason that sets you apart because they trust you. And we're going to dive into this a lot more because you can actually control, foster, and curate this whole process of creating trust through an ecosystem, which I've been fascinated about for the past half a year. So, [music] let's go into it. Before we go into all the technical details, I do want to mention one thing. What's the difference between a personal brand and an ecosystem? Because those are two terms that are thrown around a lot in the space. This is my personal take on the matter and I do find it a very great way to actually structure and break down my thoughts. You see the difference between a personal brand and a ecosystem is that it's about leverage as a service provider. Let me explain. Over here we see Mr. Beast. Obviously Mr. Beast huge personal brand. If you don't know Mr. Beast, I don't think you should be on my channel. Anyways, personal brand is all about presence. See, Mr. Beast is everywhere. He's got a Netflix show appearance in Love Death Robots. He's got his Fastables. He's got all his cool YouTube videos. The thing is Mr. Beast isn't technically a service provider. That's the first thing. It's mainly focused on entertainment and Jimmy's still a really cool guy. But the whole goal with a personal brand is to be known as a person and associated with a certain profession. Typically, I feel like personal brands are more fit in the entertainment world or people who are entering into I guess you could say almost celebrity status. Think of the Kardashians. [music] The core difference with an ecosystem, and I'm going to use Alex Herozi here, is really the leverage point. See, Alex is an S tier service provider. He's known, but he's also paid for his knowledge. And that's where it gets really interesting. The goal with your ecosystem is not only to be recognized and to be known in the world, but it's to be known in your space and to build a dedicated audience that understands how much value you can bring. See, Jimmy, Mr. Beast here, is known all across the world for the fact that, well, he's known as Mr. Reese. He has so much value he can bring in his entertainment, his content, and all the things he does. You see, Alex Herozi isn't particularly interesting to my sister. However, it doesn't matter because his goal isn't to be interesting to my sister. His only goal with his ecosystem and everything he has in place online is to bring value to his audience and to serve people who he is really good at serving. That's the core difference. So, with that being said, ecosystems are basically like personal brands on steroids for service providers like you and me. They don't just revolve around you as a public figure just for fame. They actually revolve around the value you bring, your client results, and the impact you make. In short, it's a mix of you and your business. >> [music] >> That's the difference between your ecosystem and a personal brand. And the core mechanism that they truly leverage is trust. So let's talk about how that works. The secret behind trust in your ecosystem. And this all comes back down to the forest thesis. Now if you've seen the previous episodes of this series, you'll probably have seen this before. As I told you guys, I'm going deep into fundamentals. So I'm always going to be covering almost the exact same things, but putting them into context for the right matters. You see, the forest thesis is very relevant in your ecosystem. And if you're not familiar with what it is, I'll just quickly break it down. Before your audience can ever buy from you, before they're ever going to take any of your services, any of your offers, they need to meet these four prerequisites. Essentially, they have to understand what outcome you serve. Aka, is that an outcome that they want for their life or their business, and can you help them get to a desired outcome? Second, the method by which you serve them. See, if I told you, I'm going to snap my finger right now and well, I'll get you to your goal, it's not going to be very credible. The third is a yes to you, which means, hey, if someone doesn't trust you, it doesn't matter how great your outcome or transformation may be. It doesn't matter how great your methodology is. They don't trust you, they're not going to buy from you. And lastly, a yes to themselves. Essentially, a person needs to trust that they can get to their goal by working with you. That's super important. Otherwise, they're not going to invest in you. And so, this four yes thesis is also very apparent. And in fact, your ecosystem is key to how you get these people to say all these yeses. and fundamentally fully understand how good you are at serving and that you can help them before you ever offer them anything. And so the way your ecosystem does this is while representing you and your business. Think about it for a second. I could hypothesize that if you were to go in person and speak with every single human you find who could be eligible for your services. If you're a good human, if you have a good heart, if you have a good attitude, and if you're good at what you do, it's very likely that by speaking individually with every human, you're going to convert a few and make a few sales. But see, that's just not practical in today's day and age. In fact, not with how many people are on the internet right now. And it's not as scalable. And that's the whole point with ecosystems. And this again comes down to the word trust. I'm going to be repeating trust a lot in this video. It is so imperative. The problem that almost every business owner has when they're creating content or building their brand online is that they end up commodifying themselves. The reason why, and if we can look at it from the perspective of the thesis, is because they create the exact same content as everyone else. They copy the methods of other people like the 7-second ad methodology that almost everyone sells. And well, they actually have no unique voice, no unique tone. They're all just copycats. What ends up happening is that in terms of the outcome, the method, and themselves, they're all just the same. Everyone looks the same. You, your competitor, and your other competitor are basically all just a bunch of copycats. Meaning, well, you're all commodified. I don't know who to trust. And so, this is really important. The whole takeaway I want you to get out of it is that trust is built with your audience when they believe in the outcome you can help them achieve your process or method you as a human and of course they see themselves succeeding by your help and the way you can achieve this as efficiently as possible with an ecosystem with content is through a process that I like to call customer journey curation. It's a bit of a mouthful, but it's a really cool process because what's so cool about ecosystems is that its actual power isn't just about getting you known and having fame like personal brand does. The point is that it can turn a stranger into a complete buyer naturally by representing you through content. And this is done through that process which I call the forest thesis. Essentially, by the moment that someone fundamentally understands how you can serve your methodology, how trustworthy you really are because you're actually a human being. please be a human being and they see themselves succeeding by your help. Well, it's natural that they're going to want that help and buy from you. In other words, you can then serve them. But it's not as linear as just creating content. And here's how that process works. In fact, let me give you a bit of an analogy. Let's compare it to dating. Let's say you go on a first date with someone and you know it goes well. You get to see them. They're dressed well. They got a nice perfume going on. They've got a vibe going on. All right, cool. You had a nice night, some dinner, and now you're like, "Okay, you know what? I want to spend more time with them. So, you go on a second date. And now on that second date, you actually start having a deeper conversation. And in your mind, you're already, okay, you know what? I'm starting to like this person, the values that they stand for. It's pretty cool. I like how they approach life. I like the goal that they have, the outcome, and I like their way of navigating life. But now, here's the thing. The first is that on the third day, they suddenly act off. They show up, [music] but I don't know, they're they're acting a bit different. It's not like how you were used to. Suddenly, they're all grumpy and moody and they're disrespectful to people. When that happens, trust is severed. Suddenly, the person you met and you spoke to doesn't really seem that way. And so, you give them the benefit of the doubt. You go on a fourth date. But, yeah, now they're all overcompensating. They're trying to act alto and convince you. Well, if this happens, trust in that person breaks and you're not going to continue dating them. The second scenario is the ghost. Let's assume this person just doesn't show up on your third date. They just stand you up. They never They're never there anymore. And you're just there like, "What the heck was going on?" And now 2 months later, they come back and they text you and they're like, "Hey, I'm so sorry. Something happened." Well, it's too late. Unfortunately, you're not going to continue dating them. And let's consider a third scenario. The fact that they're actually the right one. The third date goes well. They're very nice. They're intelligent. They're capable, caring, loving, everything you want. And you think to yourself, you know what? It's time to take it seriously. The fourth date goes, the fifth date, and eventually you start a relationship. and before you realize it, you're actually in love with this person. It's very logical, but this process, the way a person's relationship with you develops depends on the interactions. And the interactions that you have with another person shape your experience of them, as well as the impression of them and theirs of you. And it's the exact same thing with your clients. And here's why. Just like dating, customer journeys are not linear. For example, if you decide to suddenly be a douchebag on the internet, you're not going to land clients. It doesn't matter if you're super good at serving people. It doesn't matter how much money you make, unless you're dealing with clients who don't have morals. And if that's what you want to do, by all means, go ahead. But that's not in it for me. I don't really get the point of that. The second, if you've made content for months, you showed up consistently, and now you disappear, you never leave a trace of yourself. You're literally ghosting someone. They're not going to continue building a relationship with you. They're not going to see any value in what you have to offer. And of course, if you're consistent the way you show up, if you treat people well, if you're able to show how much value you can bring, your philosophies, what you stand for, and how you approach the world, well, it's pretty logical that people are going to look at you and go, "Damn, that seems like a really cool person. I actually want to get their help, or I want to start a relationship with them." The point is, a lot of times what happens with personal brands, with content, is that most business owners treat it like a traditional linear funnel. They assume every buyer is the exact same. Meaning, okay, I'm just going to create some content and put an ad out. I'm going to lead it to a landing page. Great. I'm going to guarantee you I'll make you 50k a month in 30 days and they're just going to buy from me. But you see, just like with dating, people actually have different journeys. Not everyone is the exact same way. And that's why you need to understand the psychology of your client just like you're understanding the psychology of a dating partner. And I'm going to add this here, not to manipulate them because hey, we can really manipulate people if we understand it, but it's for the sake of serving them correctly. And this happens by creating a customer journey. Consider dates like content pieces. First content piece they see of you, you're a complete stranger to them. Who is this person? I don't even know who this Asian dude on the internet is talking about ecosystems and making money online. Then they continue watching your content. They become a viewer. Like, oh, they're not a complete airhead. They have some things to say. Interesting. [music] third content piece or maybe more time watching you. They suddenly realize you're pretty good at what you do. They end up following you and then they just come across a content piece where you speak about the exact problem they have and now you can help them solve it and they become a lead. Eventually, you go into conversation with them, you convert them, they become a client and before you realize it, they're in a long-term relationship with you and they become your case. Get the point? The idea here is that no one is the exact same. Not a single lead [music] needs to be treated the same way. And if you do this, you're going to make a huge mistake. Not only are you going to leave a [ __ ] ton of money on the table, but you're actually creating a very resistanceful customer journey for people. And that is because the individual customer journey, and this has a lot to do with how your prospects are, aren't the exact same as you would assume it. People move in different stages from being unaware about their problem to eventually symptom aware, problem aware, solution aware, and then they're purchase ready, and then they buy. And those stages are stages that when you force them, it's literally like forcing someone to date you. It's icky. It's sticky. And it's low-key creepy as [ __ ] So, how I want you to approach this is I want you to create bridges through your ecosystem. We'll get into how you do that exactly in a moment, but I just want to break down the concept here. You want to create a bridge for a stranger to become a natural viewer through your content. You want to create a bridge for a viewer to become a follower, to naturally become a lead, to naturally become a client, and eventually to naturally become a case. If you've done this successfully, then you've succeeded at building an ecosystem. And I'd like to say that that is exactly what I focus on and why I've succeeded at building my business. To just summarize what I said, no lead is ever the same. And so your goal is to precurate a customer journey that builds as much trust and as strong enough of an impression of you. So a stranger gets to trust you and becomes a lead and eventually your client. And this is because your ecosystem is the only real touch point that people have to interact with you. Go back to the example I said. If you could go into a gigantic stadium full of potential clients, literally your perfect ICA, and you spoke to every single one of them, and you really put your best foot forth, you did it in a good way, you presented yourself like an honest human being, a real professional, it's likely you're going to get a lot of clients, right? Well, why aren't you doing that online? You see, the only way people interact with you is through your ecosystem, and that's the only thing that progresses their journey. And this also matches Google's 7-Eleven rule, which states that before anyone can ever buy from you, they need to spend a lot of time with you to understand what you do, how you serve. There's so many things they have to understand about their own customer journey, their own pain points and problems before they're going to work with you. And so the conclusion you need to come to is that every interaction through your ecosystem, whether it's direct or indirect, whether it's through content or through a conversation with you, creates an impression of who you are as a service provider and what you can do to serve someone. And [music] it has either the potential to progress, aka let's go on a date, or a break, aka I'm not continuing on this date. Your prospect's customer journey. And so what you really want to do is optimize and curate this process through your online presence with content. And again, interactions can be passive or active. Let me give you an example here. Short form content creates an impression of who I am. Long form videos like the one you're watching right now also create an impression. It shows how I know to speak and what I know about my material and how I serve people. Stories, simple stories like these, client wins, all of these also create a strong impression. But let's not forget your interaction with a human. If someone now needs your help and you look down at them, it's like the saying, never meet your heroes, right? Well, what do you think the impression that you'll have of them is going to come across? If you're standing in front of a person you look up to, a person who's been able to serve well, and they treat you like [ __ ] it doesn't matter how good they are at what they do, you're not going to want to pay them. And if you are, I'm going to suggest you, you probably got some kind of problems there because you shouldn't allow anyone to treat you like [ __ ] Another one is through your conversations and calls. And this is really important. It's not just about the content you make. It's about how you interact with people. Just imagine you've seen content of a person who's really cool. You've seen hours of their footage. You've seen what they do. And now you want their help. And you send them a message. And how do they respond? Like a total piece of [ __ ] It's going to completely break the impression you have. It's kind of like the saying, never meet your heroes because your heroes may disappoint you. Except what I'm trying to tell you here is you shouldn't disappoint anyone. if you want to be a genuine service provider and if you just want people to seamlessly work with you. And it doesn't end there though because more often than not, the conversion process, whether someone sees all of your content, understands what you do, gives you these four yeses, and decides to work with you, isn't your control. And this is just reality. A lot of coaches, a lot of gurus will tell you, "No, you can force people to pay you, and you can convince them with all these closing tactics." Well, here's the thing. What would you rather? go on calls and convince and permanently have to objection handle people or simply said have people who enter your ecosystem who don't even need objections to work with you because the thing is you cannot form the opinion that someone has of you but what you can do is create such a strong experience that will damn near give them a good impression of you so that eventually they'll earn your trust and they want to work with you and the process that I'm here describing has to do with the length of ecosystem customer journeys and I need you to understand it fundamentally not because you have created a gigantic bank of amazing content. Does it mean that if someone sees your ad today, they're going to buy from you tomorrow? Because that's something you don't control. This depends on a lot of factors, but mainly what it depends on, and I'll scroll back up here. It depends on their own individual customer journey. If someone who is looking for a solution, they've been through a lot of pain. They've been trying to solve a certain issue that you can help them solve for like the past few months. If they come across one of your content pieces and your ecosystem is really, really strong, well, hey, it's naturally going to lead to them probably wanting to convert and work with you ASAP. But if it's someone who's still doubting themselves, who's just gotten started, I'm not sure about it. Well, even if you have an entire stack of customer proof and cases, people will still be doubtful. And so, the point here is that you need to understand that at any moment in your ecosystem, at any second there are different customer journeys. For example, let's talk about the short customer journey where someone again sees your ad, they see some of your short form content and immediately through just a few reels, they end up DMing you because they resonate with you how you serve and they want to buy from you. This short customer journey is only ever going to be between 10 to 20% of your audience. This is at least what I've experienced. There's chances and seasons where you might get way more qualified leads, but the thing that qualifies the lead isn't necessarily if they're going to buy from you tomorrow or not. if you can serve them in their customer journey. The second is a medium sales cycle, which could take anywhere from 30 to 90 days, which is where someone sees your ad, they then see your short form content, they then see your long form content, they finally consumed hours of your stuff. Now, they decide, "All right, I'm ready." They DM you, and eventually they buy. See, this is what I found happens to 30% of my audience that is also qualified and has the pain point that I can solve. Now, then there is another cycle, and this one's a bit tricky, and this is really important. You see, of an ecosystem. These are the cycles that take a while because here's what actually happens to a lot of people. They see an ad, they check your content, they go to your YouTube or your long form content and then something happens in their reality. Maybe their dog barks. I don't know. They forget about it. They don't interact for a month or so. Then suddenly something happens. They see your content again, but they face inner doubt. And now they have more doubt. But you made a video that addresses that doubt. They then check your content and then they finally decide, "I'm going to DM you." And then they buy from you. The point is that this is a very realistic depiction of how ecosystems work because so many people have different psychological factors behind what makes them buy or not. The question you should be asking yourself isn't oh but when are they going to buy from me it's what can I do and how can I perpetuate this journey so their doubt their worries the lack of transparency is as little as possible. In other words, how can I speed this up? That's through a word called trust. You see trust wins the marathon. Let me explain what I mean. Most people will not buy from you simply due to a mismatch in any of the four yeses I mentioned. That's what I was trying to display. It may take time for people to build trust. Let's use dating as an example yet again. You don't just go on a date with someone first date and you realize, all right, I'm going to marry you and I'm going to give you the ring. If that ever happens, there are couples who've gone through that, but those are very rare. Most of the time, it takes a bit of time of feeling a person out. But the best way you can create that feeling out effect is by having content out and having it structured in such a way that it builds consistent trust. In other words, if people don't buy from you, the assumption is logical. They just don't trust you. And yes, [music] building trust takes time. And that's why you need to see the long game. What I want you to see is that in a span of a year or more, instead of focusing on quick selling and getting cash in the short term, making money from everyone today, which everyone else is doing, which means force selling and treating people like [ __ ] or pushing them into buying from you, why not just build a trust oriented ecosystem that'll inevitably allow you to serve people in the next year? Because it doesn't matter if they enter your ecosystem today from an ad or if they saw a content piece today. All that matters is that at the end of the day, whether it's 30, 90, 120, a year from now, people buy from you and you can serve them. And so this is what I like to call the continuation from convincing to being. What ends up happening is that the more mature your ecosystem is, the more you basically don't even have to compete in the market ever again because there's no one like you in any market ever who'll be able to serve people. And as an example here, this is of my client Sasha. We've recently began building out his ecosystem. He's just gotten started and he literally got a lead yesterday through his YouTube who messaged him and asked if she could already be served by him. And there are so many other people who have similar solutions to him except he's the person she trusts. And she even took the own initiative to message him when he hasn't even launched his offer yet. Or Nicole, who just literally wrote over here, "New client signed up. My DM setter did a great job nurturing her in the DMs. And when she jumped on call, she was pretty warmed up." Meaning again, the more strong your ecosystem is, the better. And here's an example of a client I recently closed. Quite literally just sent me a message. Hey Vince, are you ready to serve us? And I went, well, are you ready to be served? He said, 'Yes, I believe so. We had a short conversation. He opted in for my main offer, and we started working together. Now, here's a really important thing. This conversation was actually an ongoing one from way before. He messaged me 4 months ago, but he wasn't ready to move back then. And suddenly, out of the blue, I wonder why, he sent me a message saying, "Hey Vince, I want to move." This is the perspective of an ecosystem. Aka once your ecosystem is so strong and so trustworthy, people will naturally want to work with you and you won't have a competition anymore. So now that we're on the exact same page and understand all the fundamentals behind an ecosystem, now the real question comes, okay, Vince, enough of this yapping with the fundamentals, [music] how do I begin building my ecosystem? Well, thank you for asking because that's what we're going to jump into right now. Now, before you can create content and all these online assets that will allow people to build trust with you, there's actually these five pillars you need that are required for you to ever build trust. The first is you need to have a very clear transformation that you can serve. If you do not have a very clear A to B point, something you help another person with, your ecosystem pretty much is non-existent. Because [music] I don't care how great you are as a human. I do not care how trustworthy you are. If someone does not see how you can serve them and get them from their point A where they're unhappy or to point B, they're not going to understand what you're good at. And this also corresponds with the four yes thesis. You want to have a clear yes to the outcome because the outcome that you serve, the better and the more clear it is, the more trust you'll build in your ecosystem, in yourself. And most of all, people will see that you can help them and start correlating or associating you with the solution for that problem. In my case, it's I help coaches, creators, and agency owners scale to 50K per month while maintaining an 80% profit margin using simple growth ecosystems. [music] The second point is your unique methodology. This is what also will give you a yes to the method. As you can see, it's nothing else than kind of a derivative of the four yeses. But what you need is essentially a strong methodology that's the backbone for how you serve. And it's the vehicle through which you serve the outcome we mentioned above. It has to be clear. It has to be logical. And most of all, your method has to prove that the outcome is attainable. I'll use this example here again. If I tell you, I'll get you to 50K per month by snapping my finger. It doesn't make any sense. And for me, that methodology is what I like to call the imminent growth protocol. It's basically an amalgamation of everything I know. [music] And it's all the steps that I take my clients with when we're scaling their business. Next, the third point is your core philosophies and values. This is very important because it's your philosophy and your values that actually end up setting you apart. To give you an example here to the statement scale to 50k per month that can be done in many ways. It could be through for example a high amount of volume and ad spend to permanent sales calls and closing people or as I like to do it in a simple way that means you build real connections with your clients and allows you to serve them in a very easy way without all the [ __ ] See, it's your values that people buy into. It's your values that make you stand out from others. And since your ecosystem is an extension of you, it's even more relevant that you understand. People buy coaches, not coaching. [music] They buy people they trust, who actually stand for things they stand for. I'll give you an example here. There are a [ __ ] ton of coaches and gurus in the space who use a [ __ ] ton of misogynistic terms or who like to really [ __ ] talk on people, calling them gay or whatever. I think it's ridiculous. I think it's really sad. I think it's [ __ ] pathetic if the way you convince people to work with others is by saying that if you don't work with me, you're gay. I think it's childish and stupid. I don't care how much money they'll make. I swear by my [ __ ] life, I will not work with these people because I don't get it. I don't see the point there. And I can't agree with that. I'm hard on this. This is what I stand for. My principles and values are the key to organizing my life because well, who am I if I don't actually stand for anything? And so for me, I call these the cardinal rules. I stand by them above everything. The first is authenticity over vanity, simplicity over complexity, high profit margins only, dream clients only, and leverage at all times. You need to create your bible of philosophy, your bible of values because, well, it's what sets you apart in the market. Then we have the fourth point, your personality. And well, this is really what makes you you. It's what makes you relatable. It's what makes you likable. And it's what allows people to build a real connection with you. And why some people seem authentic and others don't. I could give a literal script to anyone on the planet. I could give my script right now to Alex Hermoszi and he'd never ace it the way that I would do it. Not because Alex Hermoszi isn't good, but he can't replicate my personality. He is not me. And this is where a lot of people fail. They try to copy others. For example, here's me and my client Brian. We're wearing the exact same thing. And I couldn't help but crack up at my mastermind going, "Bro, we're the meme." [laughter] I just absolutely love it. And most of the time you end up realizing that people work with you because they vibe with you. So don't actually outsource yourself. Be yourself in everything you do because you end up realizing that you're pretty unique and a pretty cool person. It's also the reason why I use analogies like video game analogies or I'll talk about maybe coffee or I don't know I literally have a cup of coffee while I'm filming this video or why I talk about dating because well these are things that are relatable to me. And lastly, there is your client cases and results. And what these basically do and why they're an important part of your ecosystem is that they basically just form a nuclear reactor for essentially everything else in your ecosystem. They basically empower every other factor that I just coined. And it's really important you understand why. You see, your clients are nothing else than an extension of you. The people that work with you are people that in a way also represent you, what you stand for, your philosophies. They like who you are. They like your methodology. They believe in the outcome that you can serve. In other words, well, if your audience sees the types of clients you work with and those clients are also clients who represent themselves, it also creates way more trust. And most of all, it helps them see that they can get a yes to themselves, the fort yes of thesis. And Sasha is an example of an amazing human being who I love working with and I'm very honored to serve. Sasha runs a 4 500k a month, peak 600, sometimes a little less info business in Germany. and they're running the funnel model high volume and it's working great. But the reason we started working together is because Sasha wanted to implement a higher lean profit and simple business and we're building out his current ecosystem. And well, he recently already closed more than 17K and it's almost all profit. And he's doing really well and he's an awesome guy. And here's a few more clients of mine like Numan, Sophia, Nicole. And in just less than 8 months since I launched my offer, we've been able to do a more than 600K in cash deals, which is amazing. And these are all proof that when people see this, they also build a lot more trust in you. So the reason why these five components are so important is because when you have them all solidified and in place, they're woven into your messaging. And your messaging is nothing more than the unique angle by which you communicate. It's how you communicate your values, your philosophy, the methodology, your approach, and how you serve people. It's the things you say online that make it so people understand how you serve. And without clear messaging, well, your ecosystem becomes a hot mess, which is what almost everyone in this space has right now because they're just copying everyone. They're trying to be like everyone else. Meaning the one unique angle that they have, which is well themselves, their philosophy, and their personality does not get implemented into their messaging. They copy everyone's methodology. They copy the same transformations. And as a result, they're left with a brand that feels [music] like [ __ ] So to summarize this section, it's really important you have all of these components in place. The best way you can actually do this is just write all of this down. Think about who you are. It takes a little bit of self-discovery, but it's a really important factor because if you think about Alex Ramoszi, you know who the guy is. If you think of Gary Vee, you know who the guy is. They don't waver. They don't half or guess themselves because now that you have all these factors, we can talk about how you build out your ecosystem. And there's also coincidentally five components for this. I call it the TNCCS framework. It's not actually a name. I just thought, "Fuck it. I might as well make it an abbreviation because everyone in the space does that." But yeah, jokes aside, it's basically these five components: traffic, nurture, convert, [music] close, and serve. These are the five components you want to have in your ecosystem, which if you've properly well structured them, it's game over. Your ecosystem will work like butter, and all you have to do is maintain it. So, let's start off with the first component, traffic. From an ecosystem perspective, you want to have a platform that specializes on capturing traffic. Without traffic, no one's going to see you. No one will even know you exist. And if people don't know you exist, they cannot build a relationship with you and they'll never know that you can serve them. Just think about how many people, maybe even yourself if you're watching this, are amazing service providers, but they never get to see the light of day because they're unknown. And so the goal you want to have for traffic platforms is to optimize again just for as much traffic and a strong initial impression of you. And you want to turn a viewer into a follower using either paid media or organic content. And good platforms for this, my suggestion here, are short form platforms because they're great on getting attention. We'll talk about keeping that attention just a moment. And so from a customer journey perspective, what this means is with a traffic platform, what you want is to turn a stranger into a viewer and a viewer into a follower. That's it. You basically just want to build the bridge in these two areas. Period. [music] And that also means you essentially want to get your audience from unaware to symptom aware to eventually problem aware where they understand there's a problem that you can help them eventually solve. The next aspect of this is the nurture platform and that's a platform where essentially as it says you can actually deliver real value to build very deep trust. And again the stronger the trust with your audience the more you will progress the customer journey. And so this is where long- form content comes really really into play. An example here is platforms like YouTube. You could do this through email. You could even use Medium, a written platform. I've personally never used Medium, but I know some people who have succeeded at using it. The most obvious choice here I would suggest is YouTube. And the goal you have for a nurture platform is simply again to turn a stranger into a viewer, viewer into a follower, and a follower into a lead. The thing is you cannot control where people will find you. Maybe they'll see your ad, maybe they'll [ __ ] off and see another ad next week. They'll click on your profile and they'll skip all your short form content. and now they'll go right to your YouTube. In that moment, they're technically a stranger. But the whole goal that you should have with all these different assets is to turn them into a lead. And so you do that by making someone who's unaware, symptom aware, problem aware, and solution aware. Now, if you're wondering what content do I post, how do I do all that? Quick spoiler here, but we're going to cover that in so much detail in the next episode. I want to focus on the foundations here. So, let's get to the third. The third is a mechanism to convert your audience. And how you want to see this is what you want to do is essentially you want to convert the audience that trusts you and is problem aware [snorts] into a lead so that they're now ready to buy. You can conceptualize this as someone who has been following you for the past maybe month or two or maybe past few weeks and they're starting to really understand what you're talking about and how you serve. And what you now want to do is you want to turn them into someone who can buy from you. You want to earn the privilege of that they're going to buy from you. The way you do that, and again, these mechanisms will differ based on your offer. I do want to put this out here because I don't want to generalize it or say there's oneizefits-all approach. It really depends on what your offer is and your niche. But there's different ones. What I have personally used, and I'll show you an example of how I do this later, is DM setting. Whenever I have someone who's been following me for a while, engages with a lot of my content, if I simply reach out to them and have a conversation, I can understand what their problems are and say, "Hey, you know what? I might be able to help you with this. Is this something you're looking for?" And they'll be like, "Yeah, sure, Vince. That'd be amazing. Great." that are turned into a potential client. They've become a lead. You can also do this through email where you can really nurture your audience or you could use freebies where you are able to target a very specific problem and [snorts] now you have someone optin for that freebie. They enter your email list. But most of all, at the end of that freebie, you could put a call to action where they can book a call with you or work with you. Another way people do this is through free school communities. And what you really want to do here is again is you want to turn a follower into a lead. And you want to turn someone that's problem aware into solution aware knowing you can help them and eventually problem ready because then the last mechanism that is required to get a client is to close your audience. Again this is offer dependent so keep that [music] in mind. The goal of a closing mechanism is simply to turn a very hot lead into a client through the most efficient mechanism allowing them to feel happy and confident in their investment. There are different mechanisms depending on your offer. I'm going to list them all here. If you have a high ticket offer, for example, like mine, a 10K one-on-one mentorship offer, then there are three really good mechanisms I suggest here. The first would be through a sales call. This is a very strong mechanism. It has high leverage because you can just get in front of a person, understand them, handle objections. [music] Again, the better your ecosystem, the clearer your value, the less objections you'll get. But a sales call is a great mechanism. You could also use an offer dock. The idea here is that you have a document in which you've laid out your entire offer, how it works like to work with you, which functions as a sales call. The only backdrop to this is you cannot handle objections and it's basically document that someone can consume. My suggestion is you send it to people who are seriously ready to move and not just to everyone because you'll have very low close rates. And then the third could be a DM close, which is literally through a DM conversation. Someone already trusts you. They're like, "Hey, I want to work with you. Great. How do I do it?" Send them a payment link and they get started with you. If you're running a mid-t offer, meaning something along the lines of, let's say, 1,2K, maybe even $500, $600, then it's kind of awkward to put so much effort into a close, like a sales call, because most of the time these offers, because they're not that valuable and that high in commitment, well, they're pretty doable. So, what you can use as a closing mechanism is you could use links with landing pages or offer docs here where you could have a email leading to an offer doc or you could have a offer on your standtore link. Again, nothing more than a landing page with a payment option. or you could have a school community or some form of a community where people can transact and work with you. And with a low ticket offer, you'll find that typically the best way to close and convert them would be through landing pages. Because if someone's going to pay you maybe a h 100red bucks for a bit of information, could be 200, $300, doesn't matter. Then having displayed exactly what this information's purpose is and how it works through a landing page is pretty effective. To get you on the main point here though, the whole idea is that what you want to do through a closing mechanism is to turn a lead into a client. Some leads might be problem aware, some leads are ready to actually buy, and some of them are still looking for a solution. The whole idea is through your mechanisms, you want to turn a problem aware lead into a solution aware lead who's now ready to buy and who actually buys. [music] And so depending on your ecosystem and your offer, sometimes it's required to take a few more steps. If it's a high ticket offer, that's why you might want to take a sales call because you want to turn someone who's problem aware to make it clear how the solution works and you want to show them how you can help them. But another way you could do this if you want to altogether remove a sales call is just have such a strong ecosystem where people just understand how good you are at helping. Problem solved. So after these four mechanisms, the last one we have is just a system to serve your client because this is a big part of your ecosystem. It's not just about the first date or the moment they ask you to be in a relationship. The part of your ecosystem that matters most is that the people who are actually working with you get a great experience. And so the goal you should have with your ecosystems serving system is essentially to deliver as much value as possible to turn your clients into a really strong case. Again, turn a client into a case and eventually this means a buyer becomes an evangelist. They'll start recommending you to others. You end up getting word of mouth referrals. But most of all, you end up getting a client who will really represent your business in a great way. The way you can do that is through a community, for example, having group or weekly calls, through information. Here's a course. through one-to-one calls with you, worksheets, structures, SOPs, or even in-person events. And the best part is, if you remember the episode we did before this, with leverage offers, you can choose the best solution to deliver the best outcome as possible. So, now that you understand what's part of your ecosystem, I just want to show you how mine works so you have a bit of a reference point to it. This is the setup that allowed me to scale in 100k cash in July with less than 5K followers. So, the way it worked is Instagram was my main platform to capture traffic. To give you a more concrete example of how this ecosystem works, I'll give you an example of mine, which has allowed me to hit 100K in cash collected last July with 177K in revenue with less than 5,000 followers and pretty close to a 95% close rate. I'll put it down here in a moment. But before I show you all the mechanisms, there's one statement I have to make. It's not about volume, guys. It's not about the amount of volume you have. Volume is relevant, but if you're going to add volume to an ecosystem that is absolutely dog [ __ ] all that's going to result is people realizing how dog [ __ ] your ecosystem is. The point is that you curate your customer journeys, that you put the right amount of effort into curating a journey, an experience, an impression of you, that people genuinely see who you are, and most of all that you're yourself because I've always just been me. So, first of all, I have Instagram as my main platform to capture traffic. Remember, that's the first platform. The reason I chose for Instagram is because basically a lot of my prospects are on Instagram, which is perfect for me, right? And also because I can run ads on this platform. I've used a mix of ads and organic content. I'll talk about this in the next episode where I get people into my ecosystem and I have them consume the content that I have available in my reels and also over here I have essentially a link in bio that leads back to my YouTube [music] as well as broken and what I do and you can see all the stories that basically showcase proof of who I am and essentially how I've served my clients. The goal here is again to turn a stranger into a follower because the moment they follow me, what happens is I can send them a DM message or my setter can send them a DM message and we can see where they're at. That leads me to the platform where I now nurture that audience because presuming someone actually becomes a follower, let's just assume they did. They followed me on Instagram, I can now send them to my YouTube. The goal of my YouTube is through my long form content to break down every single thing I know about scaling their info business as well as cases and different proof of people I've helped so they understand more about what's going on, just like in this video, how they could potentially grow their business. And I want to personally do it in a most transparent way possible that actually showcases that it's not just doable, but exactly how it works because there's too much [ __ ] in the market. And so again, this is done through a mix of long form nurture videos tailored to my. And the goal is to turn a follower into a lead. [music] Now, what makes someone a lead? At the end of every video I have on YouTube, there is a link going back to my Instagram saying, "Hey, if you want my help, DM me a certain keyword and I can see if I can help you." Which naturally brings me to the conversion mechanism which is the fact that I convert my audience through currently DM setting. The way it works is because I have a smaller sized ecosystem. And because I really like personal touch, that's just who I am. I like speaking to people. I'm very social. I do like my time off, but I'm quite social. My clients, if you're watching this, you guys know exactly what I mean. I like to use a mechanism where I can have a conversation with a person so I can understand them. And so as you can see over here, I use DM setting where basically I reach out to people in my DMs who follow me and I have a conversation with them. And what I have depicted over here are different sales cycles that I want you to see. For example, over here, this is a message from someone who quite literally DM' me the keyword on my YouTube who told me they saw a video. They'd love to see how I can help them. And in a matter of 6 weeks, from the first moment they messaged me in June, we started working together halfway through July. Then there's someone else over here who was telling me they had the same problems. they would want to schedule with me. And it took them two weeks from the moment they followed my profile. Remember what I said, follower turned into a lead, then turned into a another lead who wants to work with you. It took them two weeks to work with me. Then there's another one here, a oneweek cycle where someone said, "Hey, I wanted to DM you collective. I'm trying to scale a coaching business for both individuals and teams. There you go." There's another one here. Hey, just watch your video. A lot of value I got here. Um, I'm a coach who struggles. Can you help me? And in just a week, they saw my content. and hey just scheduled looking forward to speaking with you and hey can't wait to watch it just finished the video amazing value can't wait to implement some of these learnings with you and all of these are people who quite literally just simply through sending a message ended up coming to the conclusion that I can serve them and they wanted my help which then leads me to the last mechanism to close or serve your audience because hey once they're a lead you actually have to get them to pay you a transaction to receive the value from working with you and the way I do it is either now through DM closes or through interview calls and soon I'm going to implement an offer or doc. Once that's out, I'll break it down in a different video. But basically how it works is once someone wants to work with me, depending on if they are problem aware, solution aware, or purchase ready in my DMs, what I'm trying to do is turn someone from problem aware into solution aware through watching a YouTube video or resource and then become purchase ready. But some people just have a lot of questions. Some of them really want to be certain on it. So what I like to do is I like to offer a call interview calls to kind of see, hey, what's going on? In the rare cases that it exists, I will go on a sales call. For example, last July, I had 20 sales calls and I closed 19 of them with a 95% close rate because my ecosystem was so clear on exactly what I solved and what I served. Someone sends me a message, hey, want to get started? Are you ready to serve us? And what I did is I got on a call with them, interview them to make sure it's a good fit for me because I only want to represent clients I love working with. And well, in just a matter of 4 months since we had our first interaction where they followed me, they ended up becoming a client. And in fact, just a few days ago, from the moment I'm recording this video, they landed their first client. I'll have my editor put up a little bit of a screenshot where they signed a client for 4K. So, shout out. You guys did awesome. And so, again, the goal of your conversion mechanism is to close a lead [music] and turn them into a client. And again, you want to optimize here. The reason I'm not using, for example, a landing page is because I actually want to have a bit of an intimate conversation with my prospects in my DMs. Not intimate in a weird way, pause, but simply in a way where I understand what's going on with them and what challenges they're facing. So, I'm actually certain that I can serve them because again, my values and my rules over here philosophy-wise is dream clients only. I don't want to work people just for the sake of giving me money cuz I think it's [ __ ] I can spend my time either creating better content, serving people I actually love. But most of all, if I can't serve you, then I don't want you to pay me. There's no point in it. So, back to it. The last mechanism here for me is simply the perspective, a system to serve your audience. I'm going to cover in episode 6 how you use this to create a lot of leverage, but I also talked about this in the last video where essentially I have a community where all my clients who I work with are in. It's on Slack. I've chosen for this platform because I like it. I think it's pretty cool. And as you can see, everyone shares their wins. We're always connecting, masterminding, coming up with ideas, and it creates more value for them. Next, I have my product, which I currently have on school. I might change it to circle. I'll figure out what platform I like more, but it's basically the collective, which is what I like to call my program, and it's everything I know on scaling info. And essentially, what you're watching right now is [music] a condensed version of all of that. All my clients have access to a lot deeper resources going further into this. Then I have a notion dashboard with frameworks where I basically have all my templates and everything that my clients can get access to. I'm on oneonone calls and group calls with my clients. And lastly, I have in-person masterminds, which I recently hosted. It was a great success and I'm doing another one very soon. This is how I serve my clients and how I get them as much value as possible. Because the goal here is to turn my clients into amazing cases. Not necessarily only because I want a case, but because I want them to succeed. And if they succeed, I've succeeded. And well, they become a great representation of what's possible when working with me. And I'm very proud to say that I've served some amazing people like Charlie, Caroline, Lisa, Nicole, Sasha, Owen, and Brian, Matias, and so many more through what I've been doing. It's been an amazing journey, and I will continue to do so. So, yeah, that's it. This is the whole process of how you build an ecosystem. And the most important part is that once you have a case, you now repeat this process to strengthen your ecosystem by making it so that the platforms on which you capture traffic and nurture your audience are becoming stronger now. So essentially you can serve more people and well the game repeats. That was a lot of depth. I really hope you got a lot of value out of it because this is exactly how I built my ecosystem to hit my first 100K cash month with less than 5,000 followers, super high close rate, and in a way that it's honest to me. So now you understand the fundamentals behind an ecosystem. The next step is for you just to build it and scale it so that well serving clients becomes inevitable. And that's exactly what I'm going to do in the next episode where I'm going to cover exactly how you use content as effectively as possible to generate traffic to nurture and qualify leads to naturally progress your customer journeys and most of all filter the bad leads out from the right ones so you can naturally convert people you love working with and potentially do so without ever going on a sales call. Now, if this was helpful for you, make sure to subscribe to my channel. And if you are a coach, creator, consultant, or service provider, you find a lot of value in what I share and you want my help scaling to 50K per month reliably, then each month I open up two to four spots to work with me. If that is you and you want to just get to the point, not go through this entire series before you eventually send me a message, then just click the link below. It'll send you to my Instagram and DM me the word collective and well, let me know what's going on with you. If I can help you, I would be honored to do so. So, yeah, guys, hope you enjoyed this. See you in the next one. And just remember, please do good.