I built a consulting business that earned me $600,000 a year with an 89% profit margin. I did this with a lean team of three people, happy clients who I now consider friends, and all in under 19 months. And the best part is that I have the freedom to be my honest self and enjoy life without people spreading [ __ ] rumors about me on the internet. That's why I'm making this video, because I'm sick and tired of the ridiculous direction that the info space has taken. This space is supposed to be about growth and serving, about helping people achieve the outcomes they truly want and well changing their lives in the process, but instead it's become a game of who can out flex one another with some materialistic [ __ ] at one moment only to be caught in a bizarre drama the next one. And if the materialism wasn't bad enough, the message and image these people leave behind makes it seem as if the only way you can find success [music] is by grinding your life away with a gigantic team of complex operations, a lot of ad spends, really low profit margins, or you have to mislead people just to fill your pocket. All of this is completely ridiculous. And it's why I made a promise to myself that while building my business, I would contribute in a way that might not be popular, but hey, it's real to me, real to my clients, and it's honest. which is why I created the imminent growth protocol. And with that, welcome to the first episode of my sixpart miniseries where I will share the entire road map with you so you can build an ethical, simple, and honest coaching, consulting, or service business that earns you 50K per month without any gatekeeping and definitely without the fluff. Because these are also the exact steps that I've used to help my clients generate over $1.5 million in revenue. And it's how I built my business with less than 5,000 followers. And in this episode, I'll be covering three important steps so you can do the same. The first is the philosophy behind an ethical info business. The second is my key strategy to compete in a market full of ridiculous copycats. [music] And the third is my five-step core model behind how you can build a 50K per month info business. And with that, let's get into it. Now, if you're new here, allow me to introduce myself. I'm Vincent, and just 8 years ago, my life was very far from what it is today. I'm from a small country called Cernum, located in South America. And in 2017, I moved to the Netherlands with a dream to build a future and become a doctor. Fortunately, I never passed my entry exam. And having always watched entrepreneurs like Gary Vee, I knew I would become one myself. So, I decided to study the best next thing, business. Except that was being thrown into an old school educational system, prepped for a 2 to 4K month job that didn't really fuel my heart. Not ready to abide by what society wanted of me, I picked up a camera and asked, "What if with just enough courage and a dream, I could turn this skill into [music] a legitimate business?" And well, through trial and error, I started my freelance career as a photographer and videographer. And I actually saw some early success, but I didn't really know anything about scaling a business. So, I ended [music] up working at a marketing agency as a creative director all the way back in 2023. I learned a lot, but I didn't really feel like I lived up to my potential. The pay was really low and I felt very constrained. So in October of 2023, I decided I'm going to quit with no plan. I had a diverse skill set. I knew how to serve people. So obviously when I launched my own design agency, it would work out, right? And as you can guess, it really flopped because I didn't have an actual proven offer to attract any clients. So I decided to pull a hailmary move. I wasn't ready to give up on my dream. So I said, "Fuck it. I'm going to invest five figures into a mentorship and I'm going to make sure that this pays off. And just 19 months later, I can confirm this was an amazing decision. With the coaching and consulting space on the rise and growth, learning, developing, being very close to who I am as a person, in March of 2024, I decided I'm going to take this leap and start serving coaches as a done for you operator. The start, as you can imagine, was not easy. It was a lot of grinding, outreaching, but after a while of persevering, it actually paid off. In just four months, I hit my first 10K month as an operator. And I took this milestone as encouragement and used it to focus even more heavily on service delivery, which allowed me to grow all the [music] way to my first 30K milestone month in February of 2025. And within this span of time, I am mass knowledge. I was able to push the limits of my skills. And I had two really game-changing cases for my business. But unfortunately, that's where this perfect picture ended. I was literally beating myself to the bone, working 10 to 12 hour days in rows. I could barely make any time for my partner, telling her I was too busy building our future. And I hit a very huge wall when my parents and sister visited me for Christmas of 2024. Because I was so consumed by this endless grind for more, they couldn't even recognize me. I was so clouded from what truly mattered to me. And worst of all, I felt like a gigantic impostor. Even if I was earning 20 to 30K per month, life and business felt like this consistent hamster wheel. And because of how others portrayed the info market, I just kept feeling like I had to show up in a way that was the norm. Everything was always about more money, materialistic possessions, about displaying a perfect lifestyle. It was all these black and white approaches, but that just ain't me. Nowhere did I feel like there was a real and genuine honest focus on client success. And I'm not talking about the one where you see a big screenshot of a client number, but I'm talking about a genuine interaction where another human gets served honestly and really gets to grow. And I wasn't the only person saying this. So many of my peers and clients experienced the exact same thing. If anything, the greatest compliments that I achieved along the way was how human it was to work with me and the amount of care I put into each client's [music] project. For me, the words ethics and clarity were missing. Everyone was preaching that this way or that way is the best one just to fill their own pockets. And I'll be honest, my goal with the business might have started to earn money. But it shifted as soon as I started seeing and coming to these conclusions. Look, I definitely enjoy the finer things of life. But what I can't accept is a definition of success that's only determined by a number in my pocket. To me, this has always just been about serving people and doing so being the best I can be. And obviously the material rewards I get from doing this are a byproduct of the value that I deliver. And what this also implies is that you don't need to grind 247. You can actually take a break, play a video game, and still crush big goals without being labeled a loser as many do in this space. What if there was a way more fundamental and simple way of doing this? One that isn't so polarizing and doesn't require a one-sizefits-all or scam people approach, but much rather allows me to play by my strengths and serve in a way that I'm actually really good at. And so at the end of February 2025, after a good conversation with my mentor, I decided I'm going to take this on myself to solve this problem. And from there on, I built the model that well allowed me to scale my business the way I did today. And if you find yourself asking exactly these questions, then make sure to stick around until the end of this video where I break down exactly what this model looks like. And so I had to create a philosophy that would allow me to stick by my words so I don't fall into the same trap that so many do. And that's why I created the cardinal rules. Just like in stoicism which has a concept called the cardinal virtues which is basically a compass that keeps a person anchored to their words and values. These rules became the guiding values for my business so I don't end up like all these other duplicate clowns in the market. The first rule is authenticity over vanity because the goal is to actually do good and serve people not to lie to myself or others. What that means is if I have to lose my values and what matters to me in the process of building a business and making money, then it's really really pointless. The second rule is simplicity over complexity because I've always wanted to build a business that gives me freedom and complexity is the absolute opposite of this. The rule number three is to maintain high profit margins at all times because there's no point in making a million dollars in revenue where you only get to keep 15% in your pocket. High profit is another gateway to freedom. The fourth rule is stream clients only. And this is really important because I only work with people I can truly serve, which both means people I can help and people who share my values and who genuinely want to do good. When that alignment exists, I can actually really create impact and otherwise I don't want to serve. And the fifth rule is leverage at all times. Because as a solo consultant or even if you run a very lean team, your time is the greatest resource of leverage. The moment it becomes a bottleneck, your business starts moving backwards. However, if you organize your time well, [music] it can actually become an edge to give you way more freedom and help you build a really beautiful business. And with these five rules in place, I set off the skill. Now, I've built my model around a very important mechanism that many well-known coaches, mentors, and creators actually use. The kind whose names you literally recognize instantly. Think of people like Gary Vee, Alex Hermosi, and William Brown. What they've built is an ecosystem so strong that it's obvious how good they are at what they do and how they serve. And with it, they've built real connections and relationships with their audience. People who quite literally line up to work with them to the point they don't even need [music] to spend time chasing leads or going on sales calls. And the mechanism this relies on is trust. You see, info is growing faster than ever. Reports from multiple financial firms confirm the growth of the creator market and information space to be over half a trillion dollars in the next 5 years. And it shows. Take as an example Alex Herozi who did over $und00 million and brought in 120,000 creators to his platform school with his new book launch. And Imani who recently became the co-founder of [ __ ] another info platform. With all of this, the coaching and consulting space is being positioned as the next gold mine. But while the market's exploding, trust just keeps dropping. Every week there's another guru flexing cars and watches claiming perfection, and then they're the biggest hot topic of the next scandal. And if that's not enough, there are so many unsatisfied reviews about their [ __ ] products online. This isn't new, by the way. It's just way more visible now. And chances are even you've been misled by one of them. And this is what I'll refer to as the trust recession. All this has created is a shitty market full of distrust, skeptical buyers, and really poor service. And this is a real problem for honest service providers like you and I. So, how did the market get to this point? And how can you navigate this? Well, let's just look at the facts. Back before COVID hit in 2021, a lot of info businesses scaled using what's called funnels. And if you're not familiar with what that is, the whole idea behind a funnel is that you run an ad to a landing page, write good copy, and have your audience book a call, filter people who buy, and if they don't, say, "Fuck them, and profit." It worked. However, from a customer journey perspective, funnels are flawed because they treat every possible lead like a walking ATM. If they don't buy, screw them. There's no real room for any connection building. And that's the problem. Every lead is treated the exact same like a cash cow. But here's the thing. This worked back then because well, ad costs weren't that high. And big disclaimer here, they still work for big players who have millions of dollars to spend on ads. It's just that for businesses like yours and mine, ethical ones, it's not really that feasible. Not only have ads become more expensive, the markets become more sophisticated as a result of the trust recession. And that is the key difference here. Before 2021, anyone could just run a funnel, build a landing page, and just convert people. Whether your offer was unethical, honest or not, because while info wasn't that widely accessible, and whatever. But with the rise and saturation of new info offers, new players, all these misleading claims, bad reviews, and poor fulfillment, it's not enough to just make a big claim and sell. Who would have guessed you'd actually have to deliver an amazing service? And this is where trust is so [music] important. The truth is that nowadays your audience actually needs to trust that you'll deliver on what you're promising, that your method's solid, and that you'll actually help them achieve their outcome because so many others have broken their trust. And the old approach to scaling an info business just doesn't really allow you to do that. If you buy into the methods that a lot of people are selling you through these funnels, it's likely you'll be forced to show up and build a business like exactly 99% of duplicates in a market. And this highlights what so many ignore just for the sake of profit. That your leads are actually human beings with a brain. The truth is depending on what you sell, it can literally take months if not years for your audience to buy from you. Especially if your offer is a really high ticket one. And this is because the truth is that every customer has their own way of developing in their journey. And it's not sexy to talk about the internet because it doesn't give you quick wins and gets people buy into your product. But the truth is, I've had dozens of clients who followed my profile, consumed my content for months before even buying from me. And that's because their problem maybe wasn't big enough at the first moment they saw me, or perhaps they had limitations to engage in their progress with their business, or maybe they didn't trust me yet. There are so many factors that you cannot control. Which leads me to the next point and the question you probably have in your mind right now. If this is all true, how the heck do you then go about building and scaling an info business in this market knowing that every customer journey is so different with a timeline and different trajectory? And well, this is where we go away from funnels that treat every lead the same and where we switch to a far more [snorts] effective approach, which I like to call growth ecosystems. Instead of this linear customer journey where you force every lead through the same exact landing page with the same copy, treating them the same like a brain atm, the big idea is to approach your potential customers in an honest way by which they can enter your world. Learn about what you do, get educated about how you serve others, and build genuine trust in you. And the best part of this all is that this approach doesn't actually mean your conversions have to take much longer. And for context, I've had clients paying me $12.5,000 to work with me within 2 days of discovering me. They saw a post, could be an ad or organic content piece, recognized the fit from my profile through the messaging, and while they DM' me and we started working together. And that's the whole point. That's the power of an ecosystem. Where funnels burn cash because they treat every lead the same, ecosystems compound trust, letting you have that exact same amount of traffic, but directing it rather towards relationships and not just transactions. so you can serve instead of selling people, but without being a complete douchebag. And just a heads up, in episode three of this series, I'm going to go way deeper into exactly how that works. So, make sure to leave a sub. And now, to actually make you understand how these steps work in more details, I'm going to run you through an actual fundamental perspective of customer journeys that many turn a blind eye to. Instead of a linear conceptualization where a stranger turns into a lead and then a buyer, here's an actual realistic depiction of how customer journeys work. And the key is that they're circular. The first stage of an actual customer journey is what I like to call the stranger. And this one's key because before anyone can become your client, you're actually a complete stranger to them. And with how saturated the market is, your first impression on someone really decides whether they're going to continue engaging with your profile and your content or completely scroll away. The second stage is the viewer, which I like to consider an actual cold audience. With this stage, it's important you keep in mind that viewers aren't leads yet, but they are getting somewhat interested in what you [music] do and how you could potentially serve them. The next stage we have is a follower, which I also start to refer to as a warm audience. This is a very huge turning point in your ecosystem as it's where you get the actual privilege to start nurturing a follower into a [music] lead and eventually a client. The fourth stage is key. It's lead or prospect. And the person actually becomes a lead when your content and messaging aligns with them and they actually come to their own conclusion that you can solve their problem. And this is typically the result of how you share your cases, your methodology or your conviction in your content. And this is your window to turn someone into a client. And conversion mechanisms become very important in this stage. Fifth stage is a client. And this is pretty obvious, but this is where someone's paid you to be your client. And this is also a very important stage which a lot of info business owners [ __ ] up. You're supposed to serve these people well. And this is where your main focus really has to be on good fulfillment or service delivery. And then lastly, we have a case, which is essentially someone who you've helped grow or you've solved their problem through your method, which you can now use to attract way more clients to [music] your ecosystem. These are the six stages. And I can probably imagine what's going through your head right now is, well, okay, so how long does it actually take for a viewer to become a client? And how do I streamline this process? And truth be told, it depends. And that's the whole [ __ ] point. It differs per person. Your leads are not equal. They have different pain points, different steps in their own journey that will lead them to buying. And this is also validated by Google's 7-Eleven rule, which shows that it takes hours of exposure and multiple touch points with your content or in this case your ecosystem before someone will actually convert into a client. And that's the whole reason I'm explaining this. Customer journeys were never linear. traditional marketing funnels just assumed it and said [ __ ] all for the sake of profit. Which is why so many people have been misled and are constantly going in this cycle of bullshittery as I like to call it. And so now that you understand what's happening in the info space, here's my five-step model that you can use starting today to build a highly profitable and simple business that you actually love that gets you to serve in an honest way with high profit margins. If the fundamental truth is that trust is the key to serving your clients, here's the thesis behind this model. I asked myself this one question along my journey, which is how can I create a product so strong with an ecosystem that naturally nurtures my audience in an honest way so that it literally becomes inevitable they get value from my content. They'll start trusting me and they'll want my help along the way. As simple as this question sounds and probably a little boring. This is what's allowed me to build my business to doing 100k in cash last July. And I'm going to run you through how this model works with an example being my client Charlie who recently hit his first 40k month. The imminent growth protocol exists out of five core parts. And the first part is your one transformation and leveraged offers. My philosophy is that you should be able to serve people in more than just one way. For example, only with a high ticket offer, but actually in a way that serves you and your clients flexibly. And this is what I'm going to dive very deep into in my next video. So, make sure to click the subscribe button and stay until the end where I can link it to you. The second part of the growth protocol is your ecosystem of one. And this really encapsulates everything we talked about earlier. Now that we have an ICA and leveraged offers, it is super important that we have a way for your audience to build trust in your expertise, in your methodology, and of course in you as a human being. And again, it's not enough to assume your audience's journey is linear. We want an ecosystem where no matter where your audience goes, whatever the content they watch of yours, they naturally build trust with you. And as you can guess, content is a very big part of this step. The third part of this model is what I call predictable traffic and nurturing. Because once your foundations are set, the next step is to have as much predictable traffic in place [music] so that we get the right eyeballs on your ecosystem and where your content can do all the heavy lifting. And this is where we use a mix of ads and organic content to get as many people to have a very strong first impression of you so they turn into a perpetual viewers, followers, and eventually a prospect who is ready to buy. The fourth stage, this is where a closing and conversion mechanism come into play. And just keep in mind it really depends on your type of offer. For example, with Charlie, we have an offer document and also implemented some sales calls to [music] make best use of his time and to create leverage. In other words, this can be both passive or active. And we're going to cover all of this in the fifth episode of this series. And then we have the final stage of this model, which is the fulfillment and leverage flywheel. And this is where you focus your attention on creating such a strong product and fulfillment process that your clients quite literally get the best results working with you in a way by which they turn into your cases. You can use that for further marketing to attract more clients. But most importantly, you can use the data that you've gained from serving your clients to turn it into leverage so that you spend less time grinding inside of your business and rather can spend your time serving your clients with a lot of freedom. This is the core model I've used to position myself in a rather unique way in this [ __ ] saturated info market. And the best part of info ecosystems is that although the theory is deep and rooted, it's actually fairly simple to execute and it doesn't require you to grind like an absolute idiot. In fact, I've been able to succeed at building my business with an audience of less than 5,000 followers. And if you check my socials, I've posted less than 12 times on YouTube and I've just a few dozen posts on my Instagram. But hey, don't take it from me. Here's a few examples of my clients and [music] their success stories who applied this as well and were able to grow in a very beautiful way. For example, Charlie, who I helped build a 40k per month jazz piano coaching business. He was struggling to sign any deals and in just 120 days, he went from a 10K per month inperson only business to making that 40k a month. Lisa Huff, who was able to hit a 45K cash month in August and signed a six-f figureure deal all through our ecosystem in just 6 months working together. Sophia, who closed more than $62,000 in revenue in just 75 days since we applied the protocol to her business. Matias, who took his YouTube consulting agency from 7.5K to 20K in just 3 weeks. Nicole, who scaled from 2 to 5K to over 20K per month with a business offer in 90 days. Caroline, who tripled her revenue from 10K to 30K per month with a mid ticket program as a psychologist. And Owen and Brian who in 45 days went from 8.5K per month to over 20K per month. Look, these are all different people in different niches with different offers, backgrounds. Yet, they all have one thing in common. Their only intention has always been to serve in an honest and ethical way. And that's exactly why they've seen so much success. And that's all because they played this game of info the right way. So the real question you should be asking yourself isn't, well, will this work for me? It already is. The oversaturation of this [ __ ] in the market has made people crave for service providers who actually do things right. The only real question left is, will you show up and do the work? If you've made it this far into this video, I'm sure you have a lot of questions and you're eager to learn what's next. And so that's why I've made this series where I'll be walking you through every part of this process. You see, the success of any info business depends on the ecosystem and the factors I mentioned above. So, here's a small exercise you can do to identify where you're at right now. The first question I want you to answer is, what is your core expertise and what problems have you truly solved? Next, what platform have you built an audience at thus far and how large is this audience? Then I want you to write down how many people have actually reached out to you for support. And it doesn't matter how deep that or extensive that support is. Just write it all down. And lastly, do you have any cases or transformations of people you've worked with? Make sure to note them all down. And in particular, write down what that a point was when they began working with you and where their life is at after they finished working with you. And quick heads up, make sure to write the answers as best as you can. The more detail, the better. It'll give you an overview of. I'm going to assume only 5% of people watching this will actually do that exercise. And unfortunately, that's exactly why only a small percentage of people actually succeed in this space, whereas most fail. A lot of people just want a quick fix to their problems without doing any real effort. And unless you're new here, you already know I can stand [ __ ] gatekeeping or fluff. I don't filter myself when it comes to this. And most coaches, consultants, and creators in this space just want to be validated by others. As a result, they're just constantly chasing the next high, trying to look and feel like everyone else. And oh, does it show their content is very surface level and their services are recycled trash, which is ironic given it's the exact opposite of serving correctly. That's why they struggle building real connections or lending any real clients. And then worst of all, why they're constantly stuck in scandals. Look, the people I look up to are focused on being themselves and serving people as best as they can. And they don't really care about criticism from others who don't even take themselves seriously. And I work the same way. I really don't care how many people like me or not, whether that includes you. All I care for is to do good and to help people. So, if ironically, you're just here to make a quick buck and use this information to mislead or scam others and you're not really set on serving people in an honest way, I refuse to serve you. And with all due respect, unfollow me and [ __ ] off. Even if it's not sexy for the algorithm, I don't really care because I'm not here for more [ __ ] And this isn't for you either. Great. Now that the clowns are gone, if you did find this valuable, I'm very grateful to be of service to you. and make sure to subscribe to my channel. Like I said, my intention with this series is just simply to shed light on the truth behind the info space and give you every step and every framework you need to grow your business to 20 to 50K per month. And in episode 2, we'll dive into how you can build your core solution and turn it into your leverage hybrid offers so you have the best most scalable offer to take to a market full of phonies. If you're ready for that, make sure to click the link below and it'll take you to that episode. I'm also quite curious to hear what kind of niche you're coaching or operating in. So, make sure to drop that below in the comments. Now, if this all resonated with you and you're the type of person who just wants to get to action, you want to scale your business, move fast, create real impact, and you don't want to wait for all the episodes to come out to get my help. Then, I've got news for you because every month I open up a few spots to work onetoone with me to scale info businesses to 20 to 50K per month ethically. So, if that's you, check me on Instagram through the link below and DM me collective and run me through where you're at with the business right now. I'll get back in touch and if I can serve you, it would be an honor. Nice. I like that. See you guys in the next video. And please remember, just be honest and do good.