When you are working on something, you
have the vision, like you know what
you're trying to do. The goal is to
communicate this idea as cleanly as you
can to someone else. If I have this idea
for a feature, don't just design the
feature and share mock-ups. Don't just
make a prototype and do a screen
recording of you using the feature. Make
an ad, right? Sell this idea.
>> Welcome to Dive Club. My name is Rid and
this is where designers never stop
learning. Today's episode is with Rafael
Condo who you might remember as Rafa
from the layout podcast that I used to
listen to all the time. Well, today he's
working as a design engineer at Retro,
which is one of my favorite consumer
apps. So, the focus of this conversation
is all about how do you create software
that makes people feel something. We're
going to get into how he designed the
new onboarding flow for retro, how he
uses video to share his ideas and a lot
more. But let's start by going all the
way back to the beginning of Rafa's
journey. It
>> was my first MacBook and I I got it at a
mall at a store and then I went to the
like restaurant section above and I set
it up on a table and yet you open the
laptop and you see that video with the
stars and the words. It was like a whole
experience. still today remember how I
felt which is like this is cool. I I
thought computers were cool, but this
was like cool cool. Even not just
computer cool. This is amazing. This is
like a movie sci-fi. Look, it's space.
And it set the stage for everything
else. Everything else I would see in
experience like just trying this
computer, it had that background, that
context. This is amazing. This is cool.
This is polished. Everything's shiny at
the time. Thing was glossy. I think as a
designer, I'm trying to chase that. Like
that's what I want to do. I want to make
people feel something like that. Did you
experience that? For me, the moment was
kind of different actually, but it was
Did you ever play the game draw
something on iOS? It was like one of the
like early like that changed the way
that I thought about software forever
>> playing that game because I I understood
software. I liked apps. I was even kind
of tinkering with Adobe Illustrator and
just kind of making things and playing
around. But then I saw Draw Something
and it was so fun and it it just broke
my box of what software could function
as and where it could fit into my life.
That was the moment for me where I'm
like, I think I literally want to do
this for the rest of my life is build
stuff like this.
>> There you go. Everyone has that like the
the origin story as a designer or
someone in tech. I think there was
always that you can always trace it back
to a moment where like oh even though I
did go I did study computer science like
in college but it was not really cuz I
wanted to be a programmer or anything
like I I never had written any code or
didn't even know how it worked. But it
was mostly because like I liked
technology just again computers, video
games. I you know and it felt like oh
the world is all going to be software
right like it's all computers. So I felt
like I might just do computers like to
understand the world if that makes
sense. I I'm making I'm making it sound
deeper than it actually was. Like yeah
computers sure I'll do that. Um, but it
was like, yeah, that first year that
that's when I tried a Mac and that's
where I saw like indie devs, the apps
like from panic and full of little
delight and Easter eggs and just
humanity like sprinkled into like I
could see the people behind it. And
before the only other place where I saw
you could really feel the people making
the thing like the people behind the
thing was like video games. the game
Metal Gear Solid, the first one for
PlayStation where famously Hideiojima,
he's the director behind that series and
he's very much like he puts himself into
it like I think the first title card or
something is like a game by Hideokima
like this is and even at the time like
that you you wouldn't see that in video
games like you wouldn't get the credits
or the actors behind like right that was
not a thing in video games that's a
that's a thing from movies but no
Hidiojima is like no a game by
Hideiokojima I'm going to myself into
this. This is my taste. This is my Yeah.
interpretation of how a video game
should be or whatever. And so, and that
game is full of those moments like
breaking the fourth wall. Just making
you think outside of the box. Like, I'll
give you two examples for people, you
know, people listening to this. I think
that game might be too old now for
>> Let's not date ourselves too much here.
>> Okay. PlayStation one. You know what? We
didn't even call it a PlayStation one
cuz it was only one. So, it was
>> only one PlayStation. Yep.
>> Yeah. But that game like at one point
you have to call this charact character
called Merrill and the game keeps
telling you that you have to call her
like, "Oh yeah, call Merryill. Call
Merryill." But you don't know her
frequency. Like you don't know how to
call her. Like you don't know her
number. The game will not tell you. And
you're stuck cuz you know what you have
to do but you don't know how to do it.
So, at some point, I'm sure you get so
frustrated and so bored and so stuck
that you start looking at the the game
box and like the you see the back of the
box and in the back there's a bunch of
screenshots of the game and explaining
what the game is. In one of the
screenshots, you see like an image of a
call between you the character and
Merrill and in that screenshot you can
see the frequency and that's how you
would know which number like caller.
This would not fly nowadays. Like, wait,
you're purposefully getting gamers stuck
and frustrated. You're purposely getting
people frustrated. Like, that's usually
something
>> even as as designers, we avoid at all
costs, right? We don't want users to get
frustrated. Fine. This is a game, not a
an app or whatever, a tool. But, but
like frustration ignited creativity for
for some. I'm sure some people dropped
it like, "All right, you know what? I'm
done with this game. I can't do But that
moment is like so because when when you
get it the what you feel when you're
like
I get it. You know that feeling man is
so memorable. It's forever. Here I am
telling you the story. And like there's
this other character second moment from
the game. There's this other character
called Psychomantis. He's a boss. Really
hard boss. And the whole thing about
this character is like he's he's psychic
and he can he can read your mind. So if
you're trying to shoot it or something,
you'll always be one step ahead cuz it's
reading your mind. And at some point the
character says, "Here's a magic trick.
Place your controller on a flat surface
and you're like, "Your controller? Wait,
it's already breaking the fourth wall."
Like, "What do you mean your
controller?" Because now he's talking to
the player, not the character. So you
put it and then uses the rumble feature,
which was new and innovative at at a
time.
>> So by by vibrating the controller, it
would move. It was like, "See, magic
trick? I'm making your controller move."
That also blew my mind. And then the way
you defeat this boss is you have to
unplug the controller. There were wires
back then. Um people for people
listening uh you had to plug in with a
wire that controller anyway. So you had
to unplug the controller from controller
one port and plug it in controller two
port and then all of a sudden he
couldn't read your mind anymore.
>> No way.
>> And that's how you would defeat it. Do
you understand? Do you understand what's
going on here?
>> The creativity, the genius, the fun, the
frustration. There's so many feelings.
There's so many emotions. I know video
games, but like these things, these
moments, it imprinted on me. Like this
is what I would love to make other
people feel using software that I
designed or I made or whatever it is I
make. Like I want to inject some of that
humanity. Inject some of yourself in it
a little bit. Be creative when you can
and just create those moments of
surprise. I know like surprise and
delight. It's a very overused term
nowadays, but I'm just going to use it
again cuz I don't know what else to call
it, but like yeah, little surprise,
little like, oh wow, or I didn't think
that was possible or how did they do
that? That's cool. This that's why I do
I think what I do. Real quick message
and then we can jump back into it. When
you're prototyping with AI, if you're
spending time recreating styles,
components, and layouts from your actual
product, I got news for you. You're
probably wasting time and definitely not
using the right tool either. That's why
I love recommending Destin to teams. In
one click, you and everyone on your team
can prototype directly in your codebase
without ever opening an IDE. Destin
extracts your design language and gives
you the perfect sandbox to explore
without any of the technical hurdles.
It's a pretty big deal and you can
connect your codebase and start
prototyping today. Just head to
dive.club/desen.
That's dssn.
It's surreal that I can just talk to my
computer before bed and then agents
explore 20 different concepts on paper's
canvas that I can review the next
morning to pick a direction. And using
paper to scale my explorations with AI
is totally reshaping the way that I
think about my design process. And in
the time that it would take me to make
two manual iterations, I can see a
design 10 20 different ways on the
canvas. And AI always comes up with
something that I didn't consider. So,
I'll just grab my favorite parts from a
handful of concepts, start moving things
around, making little tweaks. I mean,
everything that the canvas is really
good at, and then when I'm ready, I can
just tell Claude or Codeex to build the
selected frame, and there's nothing lost
in translation because Paper's Canvas
already uses HTML and CSS. And Paper has
truly taken my design process to the
next level. I cannot recommend it
enough. Just head to dive.club/paper
to start designing today. Now on to the
episode. I want to tap into this concept
of you chasing that through your career.
It's obviously played a big role. Maybe
before we go into that though, I'm
curious if you've experienced that with
any products recently. Maybe something
that feels a little bit more like a
traditional digital product just to help
people wrap their head around what this
actually could look like. And then maybe
from there we can then talk about okay
like how have you pursued that? But does
anything come to mind where you've
played it or used a product for the
first time, you're like, "Oh, wow. This
this did something for me."
>> There's this new app. It's designed for
you to track the position of the sun and
like where the light is coming from.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Like say that if you want to do like if
you're doing a like a shoot like a movie
or production, whatever, TV, and you
need to know like at what time of day,
where's the sun coming? And the way you
like interact with this UI is a lot of
like gyroscope motion stuff. and it's a
super cool UI that you wouldn't really
expect and everything is really
polished. So, I'm going to put I'm going
to send you the links. Two examples that
come to mind. One is maybe a little bit
easier because it is very very um
consumer almost more game-like, but have
you ever played with the Tolen app?
Maybe a long shot.
>> No.
>> Okay. So, Tolen, T O L A N,
>> is this AI companion, but it's it's
cute. The branding is amazing. and they
turned it into this game where you're
kind of building this world together.
And I don't know, I saw it enough times
where I was like, I'm just going to
download this and play with it. And the
initial experience of this app is
unbelievable because they throw you so
deep into this world and you're talking
with this oracle who's like
understanding who you are as a person
and then you meet this new friend and
everything about it is sensational. I do
think there is, you know, playing in
that level of consumer is a little bit
easy mode because you can take more
risks. But another example that I think
is interesting is we've continually had
this raising of the bar for onboarding
experiences for new browsers. So like
Arc browsers onboarding experience was
crazy. Like that was crazy. And then
they, you know, had to one up themselves
with DIA, but then comet came out with
Perplexity. And like you have the the
space overlay on your Mac when you have
all the sound effects and the planets
and it's like oh
>> okay like that was a cool 20 seconds
where they didn't need to do any of that
but I felt it for sure.
>> Interesting that like browsers became
the space to do that like the unboxing
experience.
>> The most commodified tool ever.
>> Yeah cuz you need to stand out right and
it first impression. I'm surprised that
we don't do more of this. I mean, I also
know and learned the hard way why we
don't. But like even when I was at
Sketch, I did prototype and played
around with some ideas, but like you
don't want to hijack their computer. You
don't want to play sounds that can be
very intrusive. You don't want like
there's a lot of reasons why you
shouldn't do it. But there's also some
reasons why you should and like who's
making that call, right? In a world
where I feel like you design for
everyone, right? You have to take into
all kinds of users, which is great. Like
I'm not saying we shouldn't. It's it's
it's good accessibility wise and just
like be aware of every type of user that
might be interacting with this. But at
the same time, if you try to generalize
so much, then it's harder to do those
more like targeted experiences, if you
will. At retro, I worked on like the
little I don't know if you call it
unboxing, but we would play a little
video with haptics and stuff. The first
time we would launch it, it was very
much like targeted to a type of
audience. It's like a slideshow of
pictures like emotionally charged a
little bit with like a message going
through and then there's a haptic that
you feel it uh with every new picture in
the slideshow and then like the whole
thing is like nowadays the world is full
of uh ads and uh and slop and AI and
reals and whatever and then we lose some
of the like special moments with
friends, family, things that matter.
This is type of the message and it
starts like very fast. So, and because
of the haptics, you can feel the fast
pace of it. And then as it goes, it
slows down to kind of communicate that
thing like, "Hey, let's slow down in
this world. It's very noisy and very
fast. Let's slow down and get back to
like essentials or what matters or
whatever." I think it was a neat idea. I
think it's cool. I liked it.
>> I think people see this might be like,
"That's neat. Great." But also, you're
introducing like a 10-second video
before showing them the, you know, the
sign up button.
And there's a lot of reasons why people
just drop. And they did, by the way,
like just a little insight. Finally,
this guy is saying something useful for
people listening. Um, where are the
lessons? Hi, I'm Rafa. I'm here in this
podcast and it's a great honor and uh R
has has had a bunch of brilliant,
brilliant, smart guests and now it's my
turn. It's my turn to like ground a
little bit this podcast and have the
audience finally connect and like relate
to, oh yeah, he's not that smart. That's
nice. I can see myself in this podcast.
Anyway, so we do this video and we test
it and um I think we lost like 20% or
30% of signups for people, you know, who
would see the video first and it's like
it makes sense, but like all right, but
sure signups, but what about at the end
of the onboarding? Meaning maybe a lot
of people drop, but would those people
drop anyways during the onboarding flow
or no? And then the numbers get a little
bit softer and it's not that big of an
impact. Um, and then we didn't really do
much in-depth testing and whatever. Like
we don't know what kind of users would
we get out of this thing, but suffice to
say like of course you're going to play
a video before. At that time was like
you had to tap and hold to skip cuz I
didn't want people like accidentally
tapping and skipping cuz I worked a lot
on this video and I want people to see
it. Of course, everyone wants to see
this, right? Why would you want to skip
it? It's beautiful. Stop. But yeah, no.
So, a lot of people dropped and like,
"All right, well, let's make it easy
easier to to skip maybe then if you
really don't want to watch this, you
don't have to quit the app. It can just
stop." And that helped. And then like
actually we we were playing the sound
regardless of your like the mute switch
state, whatever in the phone cuz I'm
like we only have one opportunity to
show this video and the soundtrack kind
of plays a big role in how it makes you
feel and all. So I really I didn't want
to risk people not listening cuz I as a
user my phone is on silent like all the
time
>> constantly. Yeah.
>> So if I'm designing for myself like oh I
as a user would be bummed if I didn't
cuz how would you even know there was
sound and then we like we maybe soften
that up and actually like we would
respect the mute switch. A great
experience that I think for people who
would appreciate this it would make a
big impact but also has a big impact on
everything else. And there's a reason
why Apple doesn't do the video anymore
when you open your Mac cuz like hey
there's people who buy these computers
for like massive organizations and
companies and we have to set up 200 of
these and if I have to wait 10 minutes
to watch a video every time I open one
to set it up like come on right so if
you try to design for everyone then it's
harder to make these things. It's harder
to like Hideok Kojiman when he was doing
Metal Gear Solid. If if the goal was
like you have to do the mainstream game
that everyone is going to love and
everyone's going to beat it and it's
going to be the greatest game ever for
the masses, then you couldn't do those
things. You can't purposefully get
players stuck and frustrated, right? You
know what I mean? So I feel like that's
why nowadays like before we would see
more of like big companies doing these
risks and now the big companies cannot
afford to make these bigger risks and
that's why we see it in the in smaller
indie shops smaller devs that can make
the risks like my own side projects are
full of these little things that I don't
really do on my day job right or do at
at a not as much or not as intensely cuz
the pressure is off and then like it's
fine if if I lose 10% of my user base. I
think there's a middle ground too that's
kind of interesting. Like one of the
lessons that I internalized from one of
the co-founders at Maven years ago where
especially as a designer that skews
slightly more technical like I see all
the edge cases. I see all of the
different personas. I see all of the
ways that an experience could be
suboptimal for this specific type of
person in this specific type of state.
And it's really easy to let those not
happy paths like lower the ceiling of
what the experience can be for the
people that we really care about and the
persona that we're really optimizing
for. And I think I've had to almost
unlearn some of that a little bit where
I'm like, "No, no, no.
>> I'm okay." Not ignoring, that's a that's
a strong word, you know, but downplaying
the impact for this 1% of state or this
1% of users if it means that I can
create something that's really special
for the people that I want to make sure
are sticky and love the product. And
maybe that does mean adding a little bit
more friction if I feel confident that I
can create this feeling that is going
to, you know, build affinity with
whatever I'm making or something like
that.
>> There's a lot of lessons that I've just
internalized from my early days as a
designer building software like don't
make users scroll or whatever. Don't
like labels everywhere. And all these
things are great and good lessons cuz
you're making software more accessible.
At the same time, people are they're
more used to computers, like new users
as they were 20 years ago. Some of these
things I I've been trying to, like you
said, like unlearn cuz like, oh no,
people have to swipe horizontally. They
don't know how we have to put
pagionation or whatever. And then you
test it if you want and then you
realize, oh no, no, people are people
know how to scroll. They'll scroll.
>> Like it's it's it's fine. Apple removed
the home indicator little grabber thing
right
>> from from in iOS 36.
>> Can you imagine being like the designer
in me are like, "Oh, no, but how will
people know?"
>> Such a good example. You're right. And
they did that for billions of people.
>> Yeah. But at the scale at that scale and
I'm sure people at Apple have the stats
to back this up. I'm sure they've tested
it cuz they they're not a company that
takes those big risks. No backlash. I
haven't heard a single person like real
person like not designers on Twitter. I
haven't heard a single person be like,
"Oh no, I don't know now. I don't know
how to to go back." You know, I wonder
if there was a drop off in the beginning
though. You know, there had to be some
moment of frustration. But they were
like, "You know what? We know this is
going to be a learning curve,
>> but people, it's a bet on people's
ability to figure it out and we know
that this will be a better experience.
We know that this is going to raise the
ceiling, so we're going to do it anyway,
even if there is like a lull or a period
of frustration." I love that example. I
haven't thought about that in a long
time cuz that was a big decision.
>> Yeah. And so some of those assumptions
that I just grew up with like I have to
challenge myself a little bit and like
trust the user a little bit more. And as
I'm saying this, I'm just like it hurts
on the inside because it goes against
everything I've ever like taught or like
learned. And you know, like no, make it
more and more accessible all the time.
And I still to a certain extent agree to
that, but also but trust him a little
bit. Users aren't all that dumb, right?
And to go back to Hirojima Metal Gear
Solid, trust that they'll look in the
back of the case at some point when the
frustration is real.
>> Can we get like really deep on the retro
onboarding here for a second because
>> I think your haptic idea is kind of
genius actually. And I think there's a
lot of really good design, at least in
my head, you know, when I'm like
ideulating, it's like, oh, this is going
to look or feel beautiful. But I think
what is inspiring to me listening to you
talk is you were designing from this
core or like root realization that you
wanted people to have in that moment.
Like the actual slowing down like there
was like a physical response almost that
you were trying to create in the design
which I think is so interesting.
>> Like how quickly did you arrive there?
Can we just use that as a way to look at
some of your creative process and how
you're even thinking about going from,
you know, the
>> blank canvas of what do we want to do
here to where you landed?
>> Yeah. I'll prove that there's no genius
here at all. Like I started with I'll do
a slideshow because one, it's easy to do
like technically. Second, like I knew I
wanted haptics just cuz it not because I
wasn't at that point I was not like cuz
I want to make people feel the No, it's
more like cuz it makes it more dynamic
and haptics are fun. Like it makes it
more interesting than just a video. So I
started from there like okay slideshow
cuz it's easy and I can do it and
haptics cuz whatever. And then also if I
were to make a video and play a video
file then it would be so hard to like
sync the haptics with a video. Maybe
there's I don't know how to do that. So,
it's just like I'll I'll do what I could
what I know how to do. So, that's why I
like I settled on slideshow. And in
slideshow, I like looked at a bunch of
slideshows and like ad campaigns and
stuff from like they use as a slideshow
format cuz I was trying to like
deconstruct it. My first take was like
way too much motion and I had like a
little Ken Burn effect and all that
stuff and I realized like it's too much.
And then I just analyzed like studied a
bunch of other sideshows and ad
campaigns and I realized like oh
actually no, there's no transition.
There's no fades between the photos. No,
it's just snap snap snap. Very easy. I
do a slight Ken Burns on the whole
thing. So, not per photo, but the whole
animation has a slow like zoom. I
started there and then I did the haptics
and then I realized with the haptics
that I was actually feeling the pacing
of the slideshow of the video and then
like I was doing you know we have a
daily call with everyone on the team and
I was showing them and we had builds and
people were playing it and trying them
and I'm pretty sure it was one of my
co-workers it was Sean or Cheryl but
someone was like we realized that we
were feeling the pacing and then we're
like going over the story cuz at that
point I only had the script and I think
one of them suggested like hey it would
be nice if we start faster and then we
go slower and then it all just fell into
place a little bit. So, it was not I
didn't have the whole idea and whole
vision right at the start. It was like
I'll start doing the things I know how
to do and slowly like oh yeah that would
be cool and doable. Oh yeah, that would
be nice. And everything was kind of like
everything's like a little accident of
the process. Once we figured out the
thing of like starting fast, ending
slow, slowing down, then a lot of design
decisions around it had that as like the
goal, then everything became easier. So,
for example, when it was time for me to
do the soundtrack, which is a very short
little thing, but I started with like
street noise. So, at the top of the
video, you hear the the the it's like a
little piano thing, which is like in
itself a calming sound piece of music.
But then I added a bunch of street noise
and like
>> I think it was like at a restaurant or
something. I just went on like I don't
know copyright like just free sounds I
could use but yeah and people talking
and stuff and then I would like slow
that down a little bit and then halfway
through the video you don't hear any any
of that which pairs really nicely with
the slowing down as well visually with
the slideshow the physical aspect of it
with the haptics and now the sound like
the sound is also kind of slowing down
focusing on the music and like removing
noise. So once you got that motif, that
like metaphor, everything else was just
working around that and it fell into
place. And the whole thing is quite
short. It's like I think I don't think
even like 7 seconds or something. I
forget. No genius. It's like I'll just
start with what I know how to do, talk
to people, get other ideas, and then
everything kind of falls in place. I
like that it started with the haptics,
too. Like you didn't start from uh
problem solving or uh you know, how do I
make this flow efficient? It's like,
man, wouldn't it be cool if this thing
buzzed and vibrated in my hand? How
could I use that? And then you got to
that place and and also like so often I
mean that's my experience too. It's like
maybe I'll spend days in search of the
motif and then you find the motif and
then everything just unravels from
there. There's so much momentum in every
direction.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Can we go a little bit deeper into retro
for a second? I feel like we're we're
winding. But I I love this product. I'm
curious.
>> Thank you. Me too.
>> Maybe a little bit. Why'd you join and
give us a bit of context for it? I'm
really interested in, you know, your
role specifically because I know you
kind of have this hybrid set of skills.
So, I'm interested to see what that
looks like in a, you know, daily weekly
practice. I was looking around for a new
job, a new thing to do. I was fortunate
enough that like I was talking to some
companies and products that I just use
and adore and they're great, but usually
all of them were like big company. I've
never done the big company thing. And I
was convinced that like this is my time
to do the big company thing a little bit
based on the people I was talking to and
based on also just like the state of the
industry. It's not a good time to look
for a job. It's tough out there. So I
was not getting picky or anything. I was
also considering very realistically just
doing my own stuff and going indie which
is also very it's a big risk and it's
very scary and I feel like I have been
considering this for years and years and
I feel like with every new job search
I'm like could it be now and so I was
weighing these two either I go big
company or go the other opposite and
like let me do indie stuff and then the
people at retro approached me and I have
been a user I've been using that app
since they started like in test flight
way back I think three years agoish.
Retro is like a what Instagram used to
be. It's a it's a private social network
for friends and family. There's no ads,
there's no influencers, there's there's
nothing. It's like a really small closed
social network for friends and family to
share just your day-to-day again what
Instagram used to be. But now you open
Instagram and you're like fall down the
hole of reels and ads and you know you
blink and an hour has passed like what
did what what happened and also where
are my friends I haven't seen the same
picture of friends
>> anyway so that's what Retro is and I'
I've been just such a big fan for so
long when they reached out I was so
stoked to also learn more about the
company because I knew nothing I don't
think I knew anyone working there you
know behind the company behind the
product so then I got to know them and
it's a very small team I I think six or
seven I don't know
>> the complete opposite end of the
spectrum from the big that you were
considering
>> and it was like it's one of the few like
feel-good apps that I that I use
genuinely dayto-day. It was also like a
similar reason why I joined Sketch like
an app that I just absolutely adore and
I use. So it was like the same the same
motivation like this is an app that I
like. It's a good product to exist in
the world makes the world a little bit
better I think. And then I also
discovered that the team itself, they
don't just do retro. They're trying to
build a little portfolio of apps.
They're like an app studio, if you will.
And retro is an app, but they recently
also shipped um they built this app
called Splat. the team, they were trying
to like play around with generative AI
and like just learn a bit and and so
Splat is um is an app for iPad and
iPhone as well, but you you select a
picture or like take a picture of your
kids and stuff and it with generative AI
creates like a coloring book, coloring
thing for kids and you can just like
have the kids color in the app itself or
how I use it, I just print it. So, I
just take a picture of my kids or like
they pick a funny photo and we create a
little like cartoon version of it that
they can color. And again, one of those
apps that like feels good. This is nice.
It's a nice thing. And because it's
designed a little bit for kids, no dark
patterns, no weird, you know, upsells
and ads and stuff. Feels very simple,
like very genuine without the pressure
burden of like design for scale and for
business and for all that. So anyway, so
here comes Retro and this team and
they're like right in the middle.
They're not a big company, but they're
also not going indie, but it's doing the
type of apps and the type of work that I
think I would generally like want to do
on my free time if I had the resources
and time. So it felt really nice. And
then after I got to meet everyone, like
everyone's just a great team. So it was
a no-brainer for me to to join. And I've
been there for I joined in February, so
3 months. We're six or seven people. We
don't really have titles, but I I think
I'm I'm a design engineer. That's my
official. That's what's in the contract.
>> It's the hot buzz word anyway.
>> Yeah. They're like, "All right, this guy
knows how to code." And it was funny cuz
it changed even from the time I was
talking to people like getting to know
the team and was interviewing. And by
the time I actually joined and started
working, it had already changed in the
sense that like we have this other
product designer Sean who at the time
when I talked to to them they were like
yeah I mean we do primarily like I Figma
and stuff but I've been more and more
like with AI like working building
prototypes and stuff and that's where he
was at least that's that's the
impression I got the first time I spoke
to him like oh okay he's more of a
traditional product designer who does
mostly like Figma stuff but now with
these AI tools he's doing more and more
prototypes and Cool. And then also spoke
to Cheryl who was like she's been doing
a lot of the marketing stuff and also
doing some of the product design. But
first time I spoke with her, she was not
doing really anything with code. At
least that's the impression I got. And
right now everyone's doing everything
cuz I thought, "Oh, I'm going to be the
guy this designer who knows how to
code." And now it's like, "No, everyone
knows how to code kind of. We're all
using AI tools. We're all building
prototypes and code. Sometimes I build a
prototype directly in the main app like
the codebase. Sometimes I create little
separate like you know projects Xcode
projects for prototypes but like Sean
who was like yeah I'm starting to do
some prototypes uh with AI now like the
the most recent uh feature the the recap
stickers he built most of it like the
actual code that that went into like
production code and now Cheryl is also
doing a bunch of prototypes and building
like opening PRs and stuff with some
cool product features. It's it's it's
fascinating to see. Also tricky to
navigate cuz like we see the risks.
Sometimes we try to incorporate a whole
prototype into production like actually.
>> Yeah,
>> this is quite buggy and hard to navigate
and it's a bit messy. So, we're learning
and like two steps forward, one step
back. Sometimes even myself like what I
do when I have an idea and I have to
think am I going to do a Figma thing or
am I going to do like a separate
prototype in code or am I going to go
try and build this in a separate branch
directly in the app. It's more like
what's going to be faster. That's
usually my go-to especially in early
exploration phases like where the goal
is to communicate something. So
sometimes the Figma thing is faster but
also not a lot of times. I think the the
fastest I'm at least the most efficient
that I'm at is like in a separate
isolated code project, you know, new
Xcode project. That's my sweet spot. But
sometimes I'm like actually I need like
real data or I need other features of
the app to work with this. And sometimes
it is just faster to like create a new
branch of the main app and just build
from there. Whatever I decide to go,
whatever the flow of the process, it
ends for me it ends with usually a
video. It's like a medium production
little video that I share on Slack
because I feel like when you are working
on something, you have the vision. Like
you know what you're trying to do. I
hope so. But you have the idea. The goal
is to communicate this idea as cleanly
as you can to someone else cuz you think
it's awesome. So if you just do a
perfect transfer of idea without losing
anything, the other person is going to
think it's awesome as well. That's the
ideal uh thing. And for me, I realized
that the video is my most effective way
of transferring an idea from one person
to another. It's the the the format that
there's the least lots of information
around it. Cuz like if I just do a
static mockup, here's a picture, there's
a lot missing that might not make the
transfer, right? You know what I mean?
Uh if it's like a little video, there's
motion, there's like a little prototype.
All right, now we're you're
communicating more. You're communicating
out of flow, communicating animation if
there's some, right? You're doing more.
If you do a whole prototype and you send
them a build and like try it, okay,
you're doing more. Communicating more.
But for me, the video is like I can show
you things. I can talk over it and just
verbally tell you all the things that
you should focus on or what's important.
I can communicate excitement and then
you pair that with like a very light
upbeat soundtrack or cool whatever
whatever it is.
>> You had you had soundtracks to it. Oh,
dude. Yeah, I do like a little mini
YouTube video.
>> Okay, go deeper here. What makes a good
video? Talk about what is included in
here because I've never added a
soundtrack, but now I'm very interested.
>> Oh, these are like the guidelines that I
have to follow when I'm making one of
these. It has to be like under 10
minutes. That's a rule cuz people are
not going to sit down and like watch a
30 minute video on Slack. Under 10,
ideally five. That's like the the best
little nugget. I'll I'll sit through a
5-minute video. If it's a eight minute
video, I'm like,
>> maybe I'll I'll watch it later when I
have more time, you know? It's not as
>> I'll turn it up to 1.5 on if it's eight
minutes.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> So, you do that, it's a short video, you
do the soundtrack just because
especially if there's a lot of talking.
If it's just talking, it's more boring.
Like, there there's no if you add a
little soundtrack upbeat thing, it keeps
it interesting. And also, if you're
like, say that you're talking about one
point and then you move to another
point, you do a little soundtrack change
and now the person just feels like,
okay, now it's a new thing. like now
it's a different thing. This feels
different. And then you add some humor.
You make some jokes. You make it funny
to watch. And if it's funny, people will
want to watch it cuz it's entertaining.
Ultimately, it's that make it
entertaining. They're paying attention.
Like they want to consume this. They
want to see this. It's it's funny. It's
cool. Make something that it's
interesting, funny, and hopefully
communicates the idea very well. Like if
I have this idea for a feature, don't
just design the feature and share
mock-ups. Don't just make a prototype
and do a screen recording of you using
the feature. Make an ad, right? Like,
>> oh, that's good.
>> Sell this idea. If you're making like a
new feature that it's like, oh, this
would be so cool. Uh, show someone using
it, make it look cool. If it's something
that like, oh, I think this would be
very emotional and like people really
appreciate it. You make this app for
parents and grandparents. Oh, make it
emotional. Like, I went back to like
drop the the up Pixar's up the
soundtrack, you know?
Oh man, cheer up.
>> Yeah, that that little piano piano
composition thing like that itself it's
gonna create invoke emotion in you and
maybe it's a cheap shot but like hey you
know whatever works
>> sell it. And so you might think like
that's great but I don't know how to do
video
>> and that sounds like a lot of work. It
might but for me it's not. And it's not
cuz like oh cuz I'm so good at it. It's
cuz like you do it a bunch of times and
then it's it becomes easier and like you
just fake it and hack it. Like it
doesn't need to be perfect, but like
just make it scrappy. Make it which can
make it even more funny, you know?
Anyway, I'm just saying that's something
I I still don't see a lot. I think it's
uh very underutilized, but as designers,
we're always trying to sell ideas and
communicate ideas. And if you haven't
been using videos as a way to sell
those, try it. One thing that Dive Club
has made abundantly clear to me over the
last year is that the practice of design
is changing. And the old process of
getting feedback just doesn't quite cut
it in today's world. That's why I'm
excited to announce that Inflight is
officially in open beta. It's the
feedback tool that I've always wanted
and it's built for a world that moves at
the speed of AI. So I can share my
prototypes, give context in video
walkthroughs. And Inflight makes it easy
to get the exact feedback that I need to
move forward, whether it's voting on
directions, or maybe even getting the
green light to ship a new idea. And all
of this is available in a single link
that I can drop into Slack or maybe even
share with power users to test out a new
prototype. I use Inflight every day and
it's totally transformed the way that I
share work. So, I'm excited for you to
try the product and if you ever want to
jam about it, just email me at
ridinflight.co.
I love that and it ties back to
something that it was like honestly one
of the first probably 30 episodes I did
that I still think about where Gabe
Valdivia talked about how the best
designers are almost like little Tik Tok
creators inside of their orgs.
>> And you got to entertain people in order
to get like, you know, buy into your
ideas. And it's like one of those skills
that doesn't feel like it fits inside of
the boundary lines of what a designer
should be responsible for or how we
should think about our our craft and our
practice. But if you lean into it, it's
like really really valuable. And yet I
don't know I don't hear a lot of people
I think it is like you said it's
radically underutilized and we talk a
lot about well you know frame the
problem you know give good context like
yes totally but how can you make things
entertaining you know music humor. I
think that's fascinating for somebody
who is inspired who's like all right I'm
going to try this. they have no idea
where to start. What like tools do you
even use? Like how does how does
somebody think about the very first
video
>> for screen recordings and stuff? If I'm
doing like a quick screen recording,
I'll use screen flow mostly. Even going
one step back, if it's something just
very simple, very quick, and I'm not
doing sound tracks or anything. I'm just
recording the screen to show like a
prototype or whatever, I'll use Clean
Shot. I'll just, you know, just record
the screen. But then Cleot has this uh
feature for you to like add your camera
as like picture and picture a little
circle of your your camera which helps
if you see a face. It helps instead of
just like a voice in the background. But
that's not very funny or entertaining.
So what I do is I don't use those. I
just use uh I open hand mirror. It's a
great app. You should everyone should
download it. I think it's one of the
best apps.
>> I think Hand Mirror might be one of the
greatest apps ever made. Yeah.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely legend. Um
anyway, I use hand
Maybe people don't I I'm I'm joking. I
make I don't I'm not
>> We'll get you at the next question. Just
keep going. You're doing great.
>> Anyway, so what I do is I open a hand
mirror and you have a little window and
I just like I drag the window in the
frame that I'm recording, right? I drag
it in. I resize it. Even just the way
you start the video, if you start a
video saying like, "Hey everyone, so I
want to show you this uh prototype that
I made." That's one way you can go about
it. You can do it that way. What you can
also do like start recording the screen
and then drag like a video head mirror
window with yourself in it. Drag it in
frame and say, "Hey, I want to show you
a prototype of it." You know, it's kind
of silly. You have to be comfortable
with being a bit silly, being a bit It's
okay. People won't make fun of you. Do
something like that, which is a bit more
scrappy, but it kind of makes it it
makes it a bit different, more
entertaining again. But yeah, so I use
some of the like Clean Shot Screen Flow
for some basic like editing after the
fact if I record a screen, but then I
use Keynote a lot to just use my phone
to record. I do B-roll. Like I' i've
noticed like so if you go on my Twitter
and you see the the video of that retro
intro that we just talked about, I
realized that if you show like a a
screen recording of the video, it has
some emotional weight,
>> but if you record someone holding the
phone and seeing the same content, it's
different.
>> It's more real. So, a lot of times, most
of the times actually, instead of me
recording, say the simulator on the
screen, I'll load it on my device, I
hold my device, and I record me using
the thing at like a slight angle. This
makes it a bit more real. It's one thing
to show what a character is looking at.
It's another just to show the
character's face reacting to what
they're seeing. And it carries a
different weight. Those little tips,
like I do a lot of B-roll. I do a lot of
like me using the app. Speaking of like
making an ad, but if I'm trying to say
like, okay, so imagine you come home
from work and you sit at your desk and
you open this app. I'll record myself
coming in and sitting at my desk and
opening the app.
>> No way.
>> Just so you can see that as you're as
I'm saying it, you see it also. Again,
makes it a bit more entertaining. So
yeah, use your phone. Record some video.
Record videos of your phone. Yeah. And
then do a little edits. I use Final Cut
because I'm a boomer. I'm not a boomer,
but I'm sometimes I feel like one. Uh,
>> you keep trying to date yourself.
>> I'm not that old, but I do feel very
old. So, right. So, every time I say I'm
not that old, I have to I feel very old.
We started talking about leopard. That's
how you open this podcast. You started
>> snow leopard. I'm like, no.
>> I'm older than that.
>> Oh, man. Let's talk about handmir and
the bucket of personal projects because
we've talked a lot about you know
personal expression and software and
creating things that make people feel
something and how much of a motivating
factor that's been in your career and I
think you've had a lot of opportunities
to really lean into that because you're
you're designing for kind of yourself in
some ways. So, are there examples from
personal products that we could kind of
go deep into to really look at like
given this desire to create software
that makes people feel something and and
adds that like surprise and delight that
is a reflection of even who you are as
the creator? What does that look like in
practice? Are there places or things
that you've made where you're like,
"Yeah, this is where I really reached
for that feeling." There's one thing
that I'm still trying to figure out. I
don't know what the answer is. If I
somehow knew that no one is going to see
my work, if it would look different or
not, I don't know the answer.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> I just know that like all the little
apps that I make on the side, my side
projects, I started with the assumption
that no one's going to use this. They're
usually very niche and 100% started as
me scratching my own itch. Like I I want
an app that does this. So, I start
building it. And right from the start, I
start building it already with like
yeah, but I'll make an app out of like
I'll I'll distribute it. I'll put it in
store. Like it's going to be a product,
but it always starts with I need I want
this app to exist. Sometimes they
already exists, but like but
differently. So like yeah, I know maybe
there's already apps that open the
camera, but like I feel like I can make
it even simpler. I want to do it. I want
it to work in a certain way. the journey
like building the thing is fun and
making it funnier and more more
entertaining as the process of building
it is kind of like my like my my
currency my fuel like if I don't want it
I don't want to build something I don't
have the motivation and energy either I
won't do it or I'll do a bad job at it
so I need to find ways that would make
me motivated excited to do certain
things and like hand mirror is by far my
most popular side project is the the
only one that really like broke out of
the little like nerd circle that I'm in.
It started like just during co I was I
want to check my camera before joining
video calls and nowadays zoom and Google
meet and all that like I think they they
have this feature where you before
joining in a call you can see your
camera feed but at the time that was
that didn't exist. Uh was it because of
hand mirror? Who knows? No one knows.
No. Um but so I wanted to check my
camera and I was opening photo booth. So
I use raycast or spotlight at a time and
I would do ph
eventually photo booth would appear. I
would hit enter. Spotlight in those type
of apps learn from your behavior. So if
you do ph and then you hit and you
select photo booth it'll promote that to
the top spot. So every time you do ph
photo booth is there. But I don't want
photo booth to be the top spot. I want
photos. was like that's if you do PH my
brain's like expect photos. So I was
annoyed at that fact that photo booth is
being used so often and like I don't
want to do this.
So I'm like I want to build a a thing
that you click a button in the menu bar
and you see your camera. That was it.
And I built that before AI all I did
this by hand.
Uh anyway it was a it's the simplest app
possible. This is like a this is like a
little demo project really. It was so
simple in fact that when I submitted to
the app store, it got rejected because
it said it's too simple of an app. I
need to add more stuff.
>> No way.
>> Yeah. Never heard of it before. I was
like, "Okay, I don't know what else to
add it." Like, this is the app. I don't
So, it was not in the app store when I
launched it. I just put it on on the
website and then because co and I don't
know the verge picked it up and wrote
about it and then it blew up and after
the fact I was like all right I really
want to put in the app store cuz I
didn't even build like a way of updating
the app. So then I added some more
stuff. I added an about page and a
settings page and I kind of like came up
with forced myself to have settings. So
I had like little icons different icons
or whatever and then apparently that was
enough for Apple to like allow it in the
app store. This is like the simplest app
possible and there's not much for you to
play around with, but I'm like, "Okay, I
I have an about page. What should I do
in the about page?" Oh, show the icon
and the name and the version name and
then like, "Yeah, but let's let me add
some like credits." So, you like created
by and special thanks to and all that
stuff. And then the app icon was like a
little mirror with like the photo booth
curtain. That was that's why we had the
red curtain. And I thought, wouldn't it
be nice if here I can move the curtain
and then you could see yourself in the
app icon cuz it's a mirror. So I'll do
like the camera view from there. And so
you and then you do it and yeah, that's
funny. I mean, it's a little thing, but
like yeah, that's cool. And then like,
hey, wouldn't it be funny if like I
designed myself into a corner where like
if you unlocked Hand Mirror Plus, which
everyone should do? Actually, one of the
best things for my career is when you I
unlocked Hand Mirror Plus. That was
Yeah, everyone should do it. I think
>> I'm proud to say that I did it. I did
it.
>> I did it,
>> of course. And that's why you're one of
the great um the reason. Anyway, so I I
I designed myself into a corner where I
put that as a toggle. So like if you
subscribe, it turns on the toggle. And
then I thought, "Oh, wait, but you can't
unsubscribe."
So I was lazy also. I'm very lazy. So I
don't want to design something else. So
I I was like, "Hey, maybe the toggle if
you try to turn it off, it shakes and
says, "No, sorry. You can't do that." So
that's what I did. Like if you try it
just shakes and sorry no take back seats
like you you have it. So a lot of these
little things like hey wouldn't it be
funny just do it if you think in a side
project in that type of like no pressure
who cares do it. When it was time for me
to come up with a name for the
unlockable Henir, whatever, I was like
Henry plus Henir plus because everyone
was doing the plus or mirror pro, right?
But should it be plus or like the plus
sign or the word plus? And I was just I
don't know. And then I I I wanted to
test in the UI. So like I built the
thing where if you clicked on it, it
would switch the the string the label.
So I just I could look at it and and I'm
like, well that's kind of funny. And
then and then I added more like hand
mirror ultra hand mirror plus plus
mirror what I just started adding more
and more and then if you clicked on it
it would switch the labels like oh that
actually that that would be funny if
people could switch the name and then I
thought where else in the app do I show
the name Henir plus. So then I
everywhere in the app if you click on
the label it changes the name and then
like handmir 3000 handmir whatever I
could come up with
>> that's good. Um, I was watching 30 rocks
or like animer. I don't know if you know
that. It's like whatever. If I think it
was like just a tiny bit a little bit
funny, add it. So these things like it
just makes the process of building it a
bit easier. It's a bit more
entertaining. Even if it's just cuz then
you can like take a screenshot and tweet
about it. That's funny. So totally do
it. If you think like wouldn't it be
funny? Do it.
>> Just just do it. Why not? It's one of
the things that makes me so excited
about the era that we're in right now is
you see way more designer side projects
because you didn't have to earn the
ability with the years of coding under
your belt and even if you have no idea
how any of it works you can still kind
of make something. So you have this
surface area where you can do the kind
of personal expression because I
remember gosh I don't remember what I
would have been using. Maybe it was Hand
Mirror. I can't remember when I found
your stuff but then I was like who is
this guy? And then I click through to
your website and
>> it's you like
>> leaning over the uh the hero section and
like waving and trying to like shoot me
on. I'm like, you know what, this is
funny. Humor is a big part of a user
experience. You know, like we don't
think about it. It's like humor isn't UX
design. It's like no no actually it's
like a core tenant of a lot of your side
projects and it's what makes them good
in many ways. to go all the way back.
Look at us professionals podcasters and
tying up everything. To go back to the
beginning, doing something that makes
people feel something. If you do
something that's funny, it makes people
laugh.
>> I mean, not necessarily out loud, but it
be like, "Huh, that is a feeling." Like
finding something funny, it makes you
feel like it's funny. And that's one one
way of making people feel it, feel your
work, feel something. And if you make
people feel something, it's way more
memorable. You will remember the things
that made you feel a certain way. Not
necessarily the things that like, oh
man, it was such a fast workflow that
app 10 years ago. Remember?
No, you don't. And I'm not saying that
those things aren't important. They are
very important. But like the emotion
that will stay the thing on my website
again, I designed myself into a corner
again cuz now I people liked it and now
I don't I don't have a better idea.
>> You can't change it. I I add the green
screen cuz a friend of mine sent me a
green screen to Marissa. I want to give
her a shout out cuz she we work together
at Netifi and one day she sent me a
green screen and changed my life.
Anyway, so then I did that and and like
well since I'm here and I say hi, what
else am I going to do? How do I leave
right or do I loop this video? That's
it's never nice to see a looping video.
So then I did like okay maybe it'll be
funny again breaking the fourth wall and
things like where I'm I get bored or
like it get awkward. It gets awkward. So
in my website I jump out to say hi and
then I get really awkward cuz like why
are you still looking at me? Please
scroll. And if you did scroll which is
what you should be doing then you don't
see me get awkward. So it's not awkward.
So it's okay. But if you stay there and
you look at me don't do it. Don't be
creepy. But like yeah, I I get awkward
and I and then I try to tell you like go
away and then I leave and then if you
just wait I eventually come back and
like why are you still here? And then I
So I I really push that to the max as
far as I could go. But again, it's just
cuz it was easy. It's way easier for me
to make a video than it is to like
create a super cool animation
interactive hero section cuz I'm lazy
and I don't know how to do that stuff.
So I'm like, well, I'll do a video cuz
that's easy. Can we talk to somebody who
is inspired by this conversation? They
want to tap into this new strain of what
their work can be. You know, they don't
feel this this connection to output
right now. And maybe the reason is
because they're working somewhere that
feels a lot more like Netlefi than retro
and they're kind of hunting for like
what do I even do with this, you know?
Do you have any thoughts for that
person? to go back. It's that that
feeling like wouldn't it be funny? Like
99% of the times like yeah it would but
no come on. There's a lot of reasons why
we shouldn't do whatever. But always
chase those little ideas. Like don't
wouldn't it be funny? Like okay maybe
show me like do a little mock do a
little prototype like what are you
thinking? Would it be funny? Is that if
that's a question you ask yourself like
answer it. Give it a try. Do you think
it's funny? If you think it's funny
that's good enough for me by the way. I
always like design for myself in that
sense. Like I'm not trying to do all
right now here try to be funny here and
tell a joke like you know what I mean
like if someone even to comedians like
hey make me laugh you
>> they I I bet they struggle they can't I
don't know that's not how it works you
can't be like hey be meaningful
hey be funny you I I can't do that so
it's more like don't force it don't try
to do something meaningful here just put
yourself in a state where you are open
to those moments instead of looking at a
screen, oh this is an empty state. Hey,
empty states are great for these type of
connections because empty states are
like well it's empty it's fine there's
nothing to show. So we're already like
do illustrations you know that was how I
think the industry started but like
instead of instead of trying to force
something just make yourself vulnerable
and open to these moments. So, as you're
designing, be like, "Hey, wouldn't it be
funny?" or "Wouldn't this be something
uh" and then chase them, but don't force
them. Maybe like, "I think this is fine
to say, but like maybe you're not a type
of person that is going to do funny
work." I don't know. I don't think
that's
>> for That's what I was thinking. I'm
like, I don't know if I naturally go to
that place, but I I
>> Yeah. No, I'm trying to find little
>> But just be human.
>> Yeah. Just be human. be be available and
open to these little interactions like
little emotions. We talked about the
video in retro that's not funny. If you
feel a certain way about certain ideas,
other people will probably feel
similarly. So if you have an idea that
would be like, "Oh, actually this would
be really meaningful. Oh, actually this
would be really like different. Oh,
actually this would be very creative.
Oh, actually this would be really cool."
Like cool is also super powerful
>> feeling. Cool is great. Like wouldn't
this be cool? Yeah. Try it. the human
word. That's the word that I'm latching
on to right now because I'm not funny.
>> I'm not going to win people's hearts
with humor in my design. That's not
where I spike at all. But I want to tap
into this in little ways. And I think
the the human where my brain went when
you said human is like really
intentionally imagining one other person
using this like like what what would
make them happy? What would make me
happy? What would catch me off guard?
You said the surprise and delight
obviously incredibly overused, but
there's a reason we keep coming back to
it. You know, there's something there. A
little example that I don't know, it's
kind of silly. It's not meaningful, but
I liked it and it made me feel good is I
was designing this this state where only
one person like the owner of this
project in inflight could make a change.
And so it was like, are you this person?
If yes, sign in. And when you hover over
the sign-in button, it the text changes
and the little like emoji hand like kind
of waves and it just says, "Oh, hi
Rafa." You know, and it's like it's such
like a small little detail, but I was
like,
>> I like that, you know? And I'm trying to
find little things like that where it
does nothing. But honestly, now with how
easy it is to build a lot of this stuff,
like it took me 30 seconds. It took me
30 seconds. I was like, why not? I tried
it and I was like, yeah, I like that.
I'm leaving that in there.
>> Okay. Yeah. So that that actually gives
me an idea.
just like when designers are starting
out and I honestly I don't know if FMI
advice is still is still relevant in
this AI world whatever but like when
designers starting out I would always
say like hey you don't have your own
style yet you don't really know you
don't know anything you're just figuring
this out or whatever one great way to
start is pick something that you think
is great is nice you like and like throw
it in Sketch or Figma and recreate it
and just just going through that motion
of like laying out elements in the
screen in a page, you are slowly
learning about padding and basic layout
and like, oh yeah, all these things are
aligned here. Right? Just by the act of
recreating things you like helps you
learn those things. It's kind of like,
you know, how if you force yourself to
smile, you will feel happier. Like
you'll feel happy. If you're really sad
right now, you're really in a bad place,
force yourself to laugh and smile. Even
though it's fake, it's it you're forcing
yourself to do it. The act of doing it
actually makes you feel better. It makes
you feel slightly happier. So, it's a
little bit like that. Like you are not
designing the screen. You're just like
tracing over it. You're recreating it.
But the act of doing it makes you learn
some things like you know there's some
stuff that stays. And I feel like in
this case instead of maybe it would be
more useful instead of telling you like
oh if you have an idea do it. It's more
like put yourself in a state where when
you see these little interactions from
other products, from other people, make
a note of it. Oh yeah, I was using Red's
thing and I then I hovered and I did a
little wave emoji. That was nice. That
was cute. Whatever emotion it is. Make a
note. Maybe like save it somewhere.
Maybe there you have a folder somewhere
where you save these screenshots or
maybe you have a Apple notes. Just write
it down. Oh yeah, I did a thing. Read
the website that was cool. Like I
remember I was reading a blog post. This
is years ago. I'm really old, but like I
forget when I remember that I read a
blog post and it was a really nice piece
and at the end it had their signature
like the author like like a like a
vector signature and I remember thinking
that's so cool. That's cool. You don't
see it. Why?
>> Cuz nowhere else in the page there's
like some kind of handwriting or
anything but like the signature that's
cool. And so guess what? I did it for
one of my first side project was a Apple
Watch app like a game Apple Watch game
called Break the Safe. And then I I
wrote uh like um like a case study of
it. And so it was like a long piece of
writing, whatever. I don't usually do
it. And in the end, guess what? I did a
little signature thing. I converted a
vector and I threw it in there cuz all
right, a little detail. That's nice. Be
on the lookout. Like when you're
browsing through Twitter or whatever,
we're going to see we're going we get
exposed to many things, so much good
work. But some of the work will be like,
"Oh, this is cool." like just make a
note, save it, and then just by doing
that, next time you're doing something
similar, next time I was writing a blog
post, I'm like, "Oh, you know what? I
remember that someone did a signature
and that was like classy. That felt so
cool. I'll do it."
>> Rava, I think we could talk for hours. I
genuinely enjoy everything about this
conversation. And in a world where I
don't know, so much of the discourse is
about uh robots and scale and efficiency
and and all of the new technology, this
was a very human conversation that I
appreciated and everything about your
perspective is life-giving and
enjoyable. So, thank you for taking the
time today.
>> Thank you. This is a this is a blast.
Love talking to you. Thanks for having
me.
