Okay, it is officially time to talk about Claude. I'm sure you have seen Claude absolutely everywhere. And I don't know about you, but the content where people talk about Claude, it terrifies me. I'm I'm scared. It's really intense. It's very fear-mongering. It makes you feel like if you're not using Claude 24/7, then you are behind. You're irrelevant. You don't know what you're doing. And it's just like not cute and fun when people talk about it. So, today we're going to have fun and talk about Claude. How to enter your Claude era. Uh, and this is specifically for people who are in the social media world. Creators, influencers, social media managers, how to claude code your content. And I'm really, really excited for this. I have to say, I was Claude's number one hater a couple of months ago. I was seeing everybody talk about Claude and I'm like, I can't do this. Like, I cannot do another AI. I take back everything I said. It has changed my life and I have gone into claude psychosis many times since and I'm obsessed with it. And if you're part of the Busy Blooming office, you might know that it is officially Claude week this week. Every single day on my socials, Busy Blooming socials, and this podcast episode obviously is this week. It's Claude week at the office. We've clocked in to Claude week. So, we're going to be talking about everything from how to edit videos, use Claude in Canva, you do your Google calendar, your notion, your content calendar, everything. So, stay tuned for Claude week on all of our other socials. But for today here on the podcast, we're going to be going through a step by step of how to use it. and I'm really really excited. So, I think without further ado, let's just get into it. Like, let's clock into work. If you're new, by the way, welcome to Busy Wooming. You have officially stepped in to the digital office of social media. You're on the clock. You're amongst all of your co-workers who work in some part of social media. We have creators, influencers, social media managers, and you're in good hands over here. If you're new, if this is the first video you're seeing, welcome to work. Welcome to the office. You can introduce yourself down below. So, welcome to work if you're new. And I think without further ado, let's clock in and let's go into today's meeting all about Claude. Okay, so today of course we're going to be talking about AI. And I find that when conversations happen about AI, a lot of them aren't specifically for content creators and for social media. And so it can be really hard to navigate like how to actually use it to create content, have content ideas, grow on social media, scale your business as a content creator. And you guys, I am so excited because I have partnered with Skillshare on today's video and they have something called the 2026 AI productivity for content creators master class. I think what's happening right now is that everybody's talking about AI, myself included. And I think what's happening is this like flailing feeling where you're just throwing in random prompts into all these different AIs. And so I started taking this class. And what I love about it is it actually shows you how to use AI like a whole system that runs your entire business and brand, not just a single tool. It breaks down how to use AI for things like content planning, idea generation, scripting, workflows, but in a way that actually fits into your real life routine as a creator. The entire course is specifically designed for content creators, which I love. So every single module and every single thing is for people who create on social media. And I'm sure you relate to this. It's like I am doing so many different things with busy blooming, with content, the podcast, everything that we don't have time to sit down and learn from scratch how to optimize AI. And this class has genuinely helped me clean that up and start using AI in a way that actually feels like leverage. And the reason I love Skillshare so much and keep coming back to it is because every single class is taught by real people. It's not AI generated content, not corporate training models. It's actual creators, real creators showing what's working. And there are thousands of classes on everything from content strategy to how to grow on YouTube to productivity. So you kind of go in for one thing and then end up leaving with a whole new workflow. And it's just absolutely amazing. So the first 500 people to use my link in the description or scan the QR code on the screen will get a one month free trial of Skillshare. So you can go check it out for free. I would recommend starting with this AI master class for content creators. And thank you so much to Skillshare for sponsoring today's video. And let's get into it. Okay, so I'm going to share my screen in a second because we're at work and it's a corporate workplace. It's cameras off meeting today for you, cameras on for me. And the first thing I want to talk about first just to like set the scene is what is Claude and like what is everyone talking about? Just to like even bring it back to the before the basics. And if you have been following Busy Blooming, if you've been at work, if you have your tenure at the office, then you might know I have talked about Chad GBT quite a bit. And I've talked about AI quite a bit. And I made a Chad GBT video a while ago that I'm probably going to completely rip off the title and thumbnail from that video. Um, but I did a whole video basically going through how to use Chat GBT and how to how to like grow on social media from ChatGpt. But what I will say is Claude is kind of similar to Chat GPT and Gemini, but it's basically that you can chat to it, but it's those but so much better. And I feel like why Claude is getting so much hype and why it's absolutely everywhere, specifically on social media, is because Claude can really execute. And I don't know if anyone saw I went, you know what, I went a little bit viral the other week when I was talking about how Claude was editing Instagram carousels and it's literally the scariest thing you've ever seen. It's like it can literally go in to your Canva and edit a carousel or it can go on your computer and clean up files, make your Google calendar, your notion, like it really is an executor and that it's really designed for like productivity. And if you are a past Chad GBT user, um, and you've used it to maybe, I don't know, like, you know, talk about therapy or talk about your health or something like that, Claude isn't really designed for that. Like it it's not the same tone. You might feel like Chat Chippy is your close personal friend. Claude is not going to feel that way. And it's not supposed to be this like glazing chat where it tells you you're like the best thing ever and all of that. It's really truly an executing productivity tool. So, let's go through like how to actually set up Claude and specifically if you're somebody in the social media world. So, let's let's go through. I'm going to share my screen. Okay, so I'm sharing my screen. This is Claude. So, firstly, how do you like set up on Claude? How do you get into it? So, there are three different ways that you can use it. You can either use it on the desktop app that you download to your computer. You can use it on the web browser. and you can use it on your phone. I personally usually use it in the web browser just because there's certain features you can use in Claude uh Claude design for example that's only in the web browser but those are like the three ways that you can use it and there's really four big buckets of UIs of Claude. I'm sure you've seen things like you know people creating these like crazy graphics or people using Claude to clean up the files on their desktop. Like there's so many different ways that people use Claude. The four big buckets are chatting, claude code. Have you seen people being like I'm vibe coding? I have also been doing that. So claude chat, claude code, claude design, and then claude co-work. So claude co-work is when it like totally uses your computer. It's using it your mouse. It's so scary. And you know it does things on your computer. That is claude co-work. Claude design is brand new. It is when it does design. I mean, you know, that's just another people use it. And then there is Claude Code, which I'm obsessed with. It's insane. We're going to go through that. And then there's Claude chat. Claude chat is actually not just chatting. It's not again, you know, opening up about your life or chatting through ideas. The chat feature on Claude you can actually do a lot with. You can do your Google calendar. You can do different things. So anyways, that's a bit of an overview of like what Claude is. There's different buckets of how people use it and different UIs. It's all the same thing. Like Opus, which we're going to go into the different models, but Opus is, you know, you know, on Chad GBT when it was like 4.0, 5.0. There's different models to Chad GBT. The same thing with Claw, there's different models. There's Opus, there's Sonnet, there's Haiku. Those are probably all pronounced completely wrong. Um, but those are the three different like models you can use. But whether you're using Claude code, you're using, you know, Claude design, whatever, it's all powered by the same model. So there's just like different UIs, but what you're probably going to use is Claude Chat. So let's go through like how to how to set it up and like get started. Okay, the first thing you're going to do is to go to claude.com. And if you're thinking this is like this is too basic, this is too boring, I don't care, okay? It's confusing. So, the first thing we're going to do is go to claude.com. And there are different types of Claude you can get. So, let's go through the pricing. There is the free version of Claude, which I would not recommend. The reason being you can't use all of those models we just talked about. So, personally, I would get the Pro. This is like I have no financial benefit from whichever Claude one you pick, but I personally would pick the Pro. It's 17 US like you know 20 bucks a month uh if you bill it monthly. So 20 bucks is Claude. Okay. Once you get your account then you can access Claude. So again website, desktop app, whatever you want to do. Once you're in Claude, step number two is you're going to sync everything to it. So how you're going to do that is you're going to go in here and click customize and then you're going to click connect your apps. And there are so many gorgeous apps that you can connect. So for example, you can connect your Google calendar. These these are the ones I have, right? I connected my calendar, my notion, my Canva, and my Chrome. But you can also do other things. You can do Figma, which is insane. Um you can do your notes, PDF tools, whatever you want to do. Okay? So go in and connect everything. Personally, what I know about you, I'm sure you are going to want to do Canva, Notion, Google Calendar, and Chrome. Okay, so step number two, connect everything. I'm going to pause right here because another thing you're going to want to do and I actually can't show you this because on the team's type of account this is automatic but go into your privacy settings and turn off the help improve claude because what this basically does same with IGBT do this too if you use it is this basically means it's not going to share your data to help improve the model so uh just turn it off okay it's good for privacy okay once everything's connected then the way you're going to use Claude is through projects and setting up a project can be quite overwhelming. I will show you my busy blooming project. If you look on the side here or the bottom, there's so much like memory, instructions, all of that. So, one of the most underrated things with using AI is you can actually ask it how to use it. And no one knows Claude better than Claude. So, what I would actually do is instead of going in and setting up a project, which I'm going to talk about how to use projects and what to like name them and all of that in a second, but what I would do is I would go to new chat and I would type into Claude. I would say I want to become a, you know, content creator on Instagram with 100,000 followers. I want to make $50,000 a year from content. I've attached my business plan. I've attached my content strategy. give Claude some information on like your goals, what you want to do, maybe why you even want to use Claude, things you're struggling with, and then I would ask it, I would say, "How do I create a project?" Like, "What should I do to create a project?" And it will tell you what to do. It will say what to put in the memory. It will say what documents you need, all of that. So, I think personally, I'm not a big prompt person of like, you know, here's the exact prompt you need. Just talk to Claude like how you would talk to anybody and ask it. Okay, I want to do a project. Here's what I want to do. What should I put in my project? Once you've done that and it kind of guides you of like what to do, you're going to go to projects and create a new project. As you can see, if you're watching, I have a project called Busy Blooming. And this project in here has so much context of like my business plan, whatever. But this you can assign projects and have projects depending on like what you do. And I know we have a lot of different type of people here in the office. So what these projects basically are are these are databases that don't talk to each other. So let's say for example you're a social media manager and you have two different clients. I would have a project for each client. Um maybe you have you're maybe you're like me. You have your business. You have your brand and then you have your personal things that you want to do that don't relate. The reason you want to use projects is because when you actually chat to Claude, you're actually going to chat in the project. So, you're not going to do a random chat. You're going to go into the project every time you want to do anything and you're going to create a chat in the project. And basically what projects are is you're just giving it context. So, you're saying, you know, my busy blooming project here. It knows what I want to do with the podcast, my business goals, my business plan, like all of that. It has my media kit, like all of this stuff. So, the projects don't talk to each other. So, whatever, you know, you want to separate it out. I just have one because I even find for me my personal content on my like test sparkly Instagram, it's all under the context of busy blooming. It all lives within the context of busy blooming. So anyways, that is what you're going to do is you're going to set up projects. Start with one like just start simple. Okay. So you got your account, you got your project set up. Then what you're going to do is you're going to start using Claude. So a couple of the different ways that I personally use Claude. Firstly, I use Claude in my notion. And if you know anything about me, you know I love Notion. I'm passionate about notion. And one thing I use Claude for every week is you might know I do my Sunday planning. Every single Sunday I plan out my content calendar for the week. Um we figure out the busy blooming content, my personal content. We assign it out. Claude actually does that for me. So I'll show you how to do that. And this is where it gets spooky. This is where Claude you you start to feel like, okay, AI and robots are going to take over the world. Um but you know, they're here. So, let me give an example of how you can actually use the chats, like why you don't need to have co-work and all these other ones. So, okay, I'm going to go in here and I'm going to click into the project and then I'm going to create a chat and I'm going to say, can you make my content calendar for the week in notion? These are my ideas. I personally come up I I just like I saw something on Instagram I think the other day and it was like asking AI for content ideas is like asking your mom and no offense mom if you're watching this but you know it's just it's not it's I wouldn't recommend it. I am very somebody who I feel like don't use cloud to write your content, your titles, your hooks. Like we all know there are so I don't know this is a side note, but there are so many times I go on to watch a podcast or watch a Tik Tok and it's it's written by AI and I'm bored and I'm scrolling. So regardless, go in and you could say something like this. Can you make my content calendar for the week in notion? These are my ideas. These are random ideas, but I threw them in here. And then you go and you can see here under this plus sign. See how it's connected? It's connected to my notion, which is so cool. Um, so then you're going to click, oh, complete side note, I should mention there's different types of clawed models. There's Opus, Sonnet, and Haiku. Sonnet, this is sonnet is for something like this. This is when you're like, okay, I want to, you know, do my content calendar. I want to make my content strategy or something like that. Haiku is irrelevant and we don't love her. It's just like fast and I don't really use it. Feel free. Haiku is just for quick answers which like if it's that quick, you know, we don't need an AI. That's just my opinion. It people are totally going to disagree with that. And then Opus you would use for things like claw code. If you're doing like a website, um you really need it to be like correct. You can use opus. If you're going to do clawed code, you can actually set the like level of uh of opus. You can do high, low, medium, whatever. When we do claw code, if you're coding a site or something, we use opus on high. Um, but for stuff like this, we're going to use sonnet. It's gorgeous. So then you click go. Okay. Okay. And as you can see here, Claude is working. This is what I love so much about Claude is that it asks you questions. So it says, "Okay, before I build this a notion, a couple quick things I need from you. Which week is this for? What accounts are these going to? Do you want to include any other content? Also, he just says like a little note here. The Claude series is genuinely strong. I feel like he might be bias here because he likes the content ideas that are about himself. So, I'm just going to go through I'm going to answer the questions again. We're still in Sonnet. And then I'm going to share my notion screen and show you this. This is crazy. Okay, so we're in my notion. As you can see, for next week, there's nothing. Okay, just wait. Claude's cooking. As you can see, it's all in there now. Like I did not touch that. It just did it. And so then if I go into one and I say, "Okay, let's like look here. I did a little overview, a hook, whatever." But I notice it didn't apply the little I like to have a little blue heart emoji. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back into Claude and I'm going to say, "Can you assign all of that content to Maddie? And can you add the blue heart?" Okay, so we'll send that off and then I'll show you my notion. It will go through and it will automatically update it, which is so crazy. This is what is so cool about Claude is that it's in my notion. It's in my Google calendar. It's integrated. And this actually does take me a DC. You can see here. See how it's updating the little emojis. Just give it a sec. See, it's updating. It's crazy. Okay, as it's updating the emojis, then I'm going to go in. I'm going to see it has been assigned here to Maddie now. It was not assigned before. So, that is one way personally I use it is like dump my content ideas in there. I could even take that a step further of I don't need to even copy and paste my content ideas. I could say there's a content ideas document in notion or in my notes app. Can you populate those into the notion for next week and assign everything to Maddie? So, that's one way I use it. Another way that I use it is to do the same kind of thing but with my Google calendar. This is my favorite thing to do. Okay, so I'm back in Claude. I'm going to make it make my Google calendar. So, I'm going to say, "Can you make my Google Google calendar for next week so that I have time to create all my content? I also want to do a podcast episode on Wednesday about Claude." Maybe you say like, "I have a massage at 2." Um, you know, you can also use a voice feature and like voice note everything you want to do. Also, another way to use this is that you could say, "I've been feeling really overwhelmed lately. I really want to have like 30 minutes a day for mental health or I really want to get in a run or here's a screenshot of my running schedule for next week, whatever. So then you're just going to go in and because it's connected to our Google calendar, you're just going to click send. So Include is asking me some questions. It's saying what day is your dedicated batch week? It knows my April content strategy. So it knows one thing I'm trying to do is batch content. So I'm going to say Monday is my batch day. Next week I need to do a YouTube video, Instagram reels, and then if I switch over to my Google calendar, which currently is blank, but it's going to be filled in a second, it will update automatically. One thing I love about doing my Google calendar on Sundays, too, is it adds in blocks that sometimes I don't think about. So, it'll be like, okay, you have a, you know, podcast episode interview on Friday. It will add in like a block to plan the podcast, which is really helpful. Also, while we're sitting here, while Claude is cooking, you can see I have a Botox appointment. Let me just say, I have crazy TMJ and like I I clench so much and it gives me like just the most pain. I tried getting massador Botox. It helped so much. It was so so so helpful. So, just, you know, if anyone's want to try it, I it worked well for me. It really did. I needed I need to get it like every six months or so. Oh, sorry. Okay. Claude Claude is going. So, as you can see here, Claude is populating my calendar. It's going through. It's adding things like a batch day. I really like how it describes the calendar events, too. So, when you feed into Claude like everything you need to do, it's really really helpful and like be really detailed of like how you've been feeling, what you've been struggling with, what you want to do, and it will just make your calendar. It takes all the admin out, which is so nice. Okay, so those are the basics of how to use Claude, how to set it up, how to get it to your calendar, your notion. But of course, there are so many other ways that you can use Claude. If anybody saw, I did a video recently on Tik Tok and Instagram about our command center that we have where I get text messages every morning. I have this big command center that goes through the whole HQ subscriptions, Instagram, podcast, comments, data on growth, our brand deals, income, everything. That is one example as well as how we edit videos, how this podcast episode will be edited and rough cut by Claude like that. How we edit podcast clips. You can also integrate things like Gemini into Claude to doublech checkck your work. Like there are so many things like that. All of that is custom Python which has been coded through Claude. So Claude code is like a whole other world. It's a whole other thing. And all of that custom Python tools like a video editor, the dashboard, things like that. Those are actually all Claude coded. And the custom Python has been created through Claude code. And that's what vibe coding is. It's like when you have Claude Code open and you say, "Can you make me an app or can you make me like whatever?" It basically you tell it what to do and it makes the Python, it makes the CSS. All of those things are customcoded things that my husband has actually made and I want to start infiltrating those into Busy Blooming HQ. And if you're not in HQ, I want to share it on my socials this week. So, we're not going to get into claude code today or claude design today on the show, but I will be getting into it in HQ templates for that, all of that, but also tutorials on short form this week on the Busy Blooming channels and my short form channels as well. Busy Blooming HQ is here. It has recently had a huge upgrade. We moved offices this week and this is truly the digital office of social media. And in our tool section, I will be having clawed templates throughout the week. But something else I wanted to say as well is that we are adding in an IT desk here to HQ where you can actually if you need support on like for example we already have our like command center template here if you have questions on claude or any other technical questions like with social media if you're trying to use like a AI editor or dscript or whatever final cut pro you have questions we are going to be adding in here a IT desk to busy blooming hq Q where you can actually go in submit a ticket like truly like you're in a digital office of social media. You can submit a ticket and Storm will personally respond to you. My husband who is so techsavvy with all of this and he will respond to you. So if you feel very isolated like okay you don't have anybody like to talk to about all these technical things. So I bet a ticket to the IT desk which is coming out today and we will help you because I really really want to help you figure out all of this. So, there's going to be templates in HQ, the IT desk, but then also on my personal socials, if you don't want to be in here, I'm going to show tutorials as well for anything that is a little more complex and like claude code custom stuff. We're going to get into all of that and claude design on short form. But for today, that is a little step by step on like how to use Claude. You also, of course, can use it for things like building out a content strategy PDF, a business plan PDF. You can use it to brainstorm. There are so many other ways you can use it, but that is a very ba like basics 101 of Claude, how to get started, and I'm so excited about it. I'm also so excited side out about the new HQ. It is like I won't go on and on about it, but I'm so excited about it. It is truly like the digital office of social media. If you want to get a walkthrough of like what HQ is, there's actually for the first time truly an office tour on our website, so you can go check it out and watch the video of like everything that's included. I'm so proud of it and so excited about it. That is Claude 101 and I hope you enjoyed this video. I hope it was helpful. If you have any questions below, comment them below. As always, use the comment section as an extension of the video. If you have questions, if you have anything else you want to see about Claude, this is our this is our podcast. This is our meeting together. So, there's anything you specifically want me to sit down and like screen share and do an episode out on, then like let me know. But, I hope you're doing well. I'm so excited for Claude Week everywhere. for all over busy blooming and all of our socials and we're us social media content people. We're going to take over Claude and I can't wait. So, thank you so much for watching. Thank you so much for clocking in and I'll see you soon. Okay, bye.