Over the course of my Instagram career, I've gotten more than two billion views. And in today's episode, I'm going to share with you the seven key lessons that I've learned about human psychology along the way. And I'm sure that a more attention-grabbing title for this video would have been the seven things that I learned about the algorithm along the way. But in all reality, that's kind of tip number zero, which is that the focus should be on the audience, not the algorithm. If you can understand human psychology and even to take it a step further, understand the psychology of your ICP, your ideal customer profile, then you'll win. You'll get views. You won't constantly be playing catch-up trying to figure out what hooks are trending, what formats are going viral, and what audios are people using to blow up their Instagram right now. Instead, you'll be able to consistently get views, engagement, and grow your following. Yes, you need a basic understanding of how the algorithm works, but if you can truly understand human psychology, then you will win on social media. Fortunately, the algorithm is designed for humans. And so, even though the algorithm changes every day, it's ultimately constantly changing and evolving and adapting to meet the needs and the demands and the desires that us humans, the actual consumers are expressing. It is changing and being tweaked to match the triggers and the signals that we are giving it. And that leads me directly into the first lesson learned, which is that people share posts to say something about themselves, not necessarily because of the post itself, and rarely because of the person who created the post. First of all, I've talked about this many times before, but shares are the number one metric for growth, views, and virality on Instagram. And next week, I'm going to be doing an entire episode talking more in depth about how to get shares. So, make sure you hit the subscribe button to stay tuned for that. But in general, from a human psychology standpoint, when people share something, they do so because they're trying to signal or say something about themselves. Let's say I see your post and I think it's super funny and so I send it to my wife Tay. I am sharing it with her to signal to her that I am funny or that I am the source of the funny material. Yes, ultimately you are the creator. You are the person who posted the funny meme, but I'm sharing it to say something about myself. And so the challenge for you is to really understand and empathize with your ideal followers so that you can know what it is that they want to say about themselves. What are their self-beliefs both positively and negatively? What are they trying to signal to their friends and families and the people who follow them? Basically, when people share your post, it's a way for them to signal their identity to others. And when I started thinking more about this myself and thinking more about my ideal target followers and customers, I realized that they're almost all small business owners. And universally across the board, small business owners struggle with lack of support from friends and family. When you're first getting started as a solo entrepreneur, building your personal brand or your business, it feels like, "Oh my gosh, I just can't get the support. My friends and family aren't hyping me up. I can't grow my following." And it just feels like you're yelling into the void. And so I began creating content that kind of signaled this or called this out or sometimes explicitly stated that, you know, my friends don't support me as much as the strangers do or it costs nothing to share and support someone on Instagram. And as I started creating messages like that, the small business owners and soloreneurs and personal brands who followed me on Instagram began sharing my posts and those posts specifically so much more. When you truly empathize with your ICP and you understand their psychology, you're also able to eventually, the highest level of this is to tap into the things that they want to say, but that they'll never say out loud. The things that they believe or the things that they wish other people knew, but they're too shy or timid or scared or nervous to say it themselves. And so, when you post saying those things, they can then share your post to amplify your voice. And it's kind of like a way that they can say it without directly saying it. And by far the best way to understand the psychology of your ICP is to have direct conversations with them. Whether that's in the comment section, in the direct messages, having consultation calls, hosting free one-on-one coaching. That's something that I did a ton of when I was first getting started growing on Instagram. And it's still something that I do to this day. I'm constantly giving away free 15minute coaching calls as rewards, as prizes, and giveaways on my Instagram because, yes, it's a great incentive for engagement, but for me personally, I get so much out of those 15-minute one-on-one sessions because I'm having real conversations with real human beings, and I'm getting to hear their concerns, their fears, the things that they're struggling with, and I'm able to hear the words that they're willing to tell me in a private one-on-one call, but they would never post about on Instagram. And so then I can turn those sentiments, I can turn those ideas, I can turn those identities into posts that they will then be so much more likely to share. The second absolute fact that I've learned about human psychology as I've gotten more than two billion views on Instagram is that nobody is watching. And I know that that sounds silly because I got two billion views and yet what I have learned is true that nobody's watching or maybe more precisely nobody's paying attention. People are watching, they're scrolling, but no one's paying attention. And while I think there's definitely a negative side to the fact that there is no one paying attention, and while it can definitely be hard to get in front of people nowadays, and while the human attention span is shorter than a goldfish, that's a fact.

You can look it up. I think there's actually four key benefits that I choose to focus on when I'm considering the fact that nobody's paying attention. Number one, it gives me permission to post more. It is true on Instagram that the more you post, the more you grow. And oftentimes when I say that, one of the chief concerns that comes to people's mind is overwhelming their followers or spamming their feed so that their followers are like, "Oh my god, I'm overwhelmed. It's too much." I am someone who posts five times a day on Instagram. And yet, I know that the vast majority of my almost 1 million followers will not see most of my posts.

And if they do see any of my posts, they're probably not paying that close of attention. And so if they see another post that's literally covering the exact same topic or telling the exact same story or even another post later that afternoon after they saw one of my posts in the morning, they're probably not even going to notice and they're probably not going to care because they're not paying that much attention. And so that gives me permission to post more and thus grow more and not concern with overwhelming or spamming people.

The second benefit to no one paying attention is that you can literally post the same thing multiple times. And this is one of the strategies that I recommend. It's called upycling. And it's basically taking a post that you have already posted and once 90 days have passed, literally posting it again. Same exact post, same exact caption, same audio, literally same everything, just re-uploading it. You don't need to delete or archive or do anything to the original. You don't need to announce that it's a repost because again, no one is paying attention. And so very few people saw it the first time. And the very few who did see it, they don't remember seeing it because they weren't paying that much attention. But additionally, besides just directly upycling and reposting something from the past, you can constantly be sharing the same tips, telling the same stories, giving the same ideas, teaching the same lessons over and over again. Because ultimately, for most people, it's going in one ear and out the other. Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform that is designed to help you connect with your customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all of your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through both email and SMS, and keep your audience coming back with powerful automations.

But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by recommending personalized suggestions, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, streamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything that you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code tribe 50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first 3 months of the annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/tribe to take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. The third one I hope is going to provide a huge piece of permission and a huge sense of relief for you. And that's that since no one is paying attention, no one is noticing your mistakes. They don't care. In reality, the only person who is noticing the imperfections, the cluttered background, the typo, the misspelled word, the food that was in your teeth, the hair that was out of place, the smudge of in your makeup. No one is noticing that besides you. We are all our own harshest critics. And that's one of the reasons that no one's paying attention is because everyone is so self-absorbed. Everyone is so busy paying attention to their own problems and their own flaws and their own mistakes and their own challenges and their own futures and their own anxieties and their own past and their own traumas and all that. They're way too busy worried about their dang selves to worry about you. And so that gives you permission, I hope, to make mistakes, to experiment, to try new things, to flop. I hear often times the business owners are scared to flop. And I believe that if you're not flopping on Instagram, you're not going to be growing. I believe that at least 20% of your posts should be a flop. They should be a failure. They should be a post that isn't getting very many views because the purpose of every post should not be to go viral. You need to have a good amount of experimentation. You need to have a good amount of trial and error.

And part of trial and error is error. Part of failing until you learn is failing. And fortunately, because no one's paying attention, you have permission. You have permission to change niches. You have permission to try new styles of content. You have permission to test out new theories and new uh kinds of reels. You have permission to try out new trends. You have permission to make those mistakes because no one cares and no one is paying attention. And the fourth thing that's really awesome about no one paying attention is that you don't have to be like a college professor. You don't have to be like the world's leading expert or be super smart in any given field or to be like the world's leading expert in your domain in order to grow on Instagram. In fact, one of my favorite formats that is currently super popular is explaining different nutrition topics or fitness topics as if I have CTE. This format was created by Josh Gilliam. And while it's silly and while it's a little bit over the top and his oversimplification of the way he's speaking, it is kind of a play on the modern lack of attention and the modern uh ability to focus and learn on social media, the modern literacy rates as low as they are. And so you have permission to dumb it down, to simplify your reels, to use easier to understand language.

You don't need to impress people by using fancy vocab and big words and trying to teach these big topics and terms when often times that's going to be less effective because people are going to zone out. It's going to go over their head. They're going to stop paying attention. So dumb it down. Simplify your teaching which makes it easier for you as an educator if you are an educational entrepreneur. And then that allows also your audience to pay more attention and actually learn more in the process. So keep it simple, sweetie.

That should be easier on you and it will be easier on your audience as well. The third thing that I've learned about human psychology is that everyone can smell your BS. And I don't know scientifically why this happens, but we all can tell. And I think that over the last 5 years, I think that since 2020, our BS radar has been finely tuned. Our nose is really dialed in to be able to smell that stuff from a mile away. We can smell when someone is pandering to get engagement. We can smell when someone is about to start selling to us.

We can smell and detect when someone is using AI in their content. And so the biggest recommendation that I have for you is to stop trying to trick your audience. And often times tricking your audience is because you're trying to cater to or pander to the algorithm. Stop doing that. That sort of stuff might have worked in 2014, 2015, but it's 2026. We're almost in 2027 now. Stop trying the BS hacks and tricks because people can smell that stuff from a mile away. Instead, make sure that you have a good heart. Make sure that your intentions are in the right places, that you're truly trying to serve rather than sell and you're about the transformation more than the transaction. And finally, if you aren't excited about what you're posting, if you aren't excited about what you're doing, if you don't love what it is that you are sharing online, that's going to come through in your content. If you're just kind of mailing it in and throwing spaghetti against the wall and posting things because you heard from some guy on some podcast who has a buzz cut and a beard that you have to post a certain amount of times per day. I'm talking about myself that you have to post certain amount of times and so you're like, "Oh, I guess I just got to post it today. I just got to throw something against the wall and you're just kind of halfassing it and mailing it in." Of course, that's not going to work. Like people can smell that. And again, I don't know if it's because we've all been on social media for 15, 20 years now. I don't know if it's because the modern consumer is consuming tens of thousands of videos a day and so they just get really really good at spotting what they like and what they don't like, what is real and what is fake, but I mean ultimately if you aren't excited about what you're posting, if you're not enjoying the process, I'm not saying that you need to love Instagram or you need to love every step of the way, but if you're not just enjoying it at a minimum, if you are mailing it in and you're treating it like a chore to be posting on social media, well then that's going to come through in your content. it's going to be very tough to grow because of it. The fourth thing that I've learned about human psychology is that negativity bias is real. It's powerful and unfortunately it's very exploitable. And of course, negativity bias is basically our brains hardwiring to pay more attention to the negative thing than the positive. It's why that one mean thing that someone said to you in high school is still in your head today. It's why that one negative comment out of the thousands of positive comments has stuck with you.

And so, I think that there's two things that you need to keep in mind when it comes to this negativity bias. Number one, like I said, it's exploitable. Now, I don't want you to overdo it. And actually, studies have shown that if you overdo the negativity, if you basically become the negative Nelly and all of your posts are, don't do this, stop doing this, the world is ending, drama, drama, drama, it eventually becomes white noise. It's one of the reasons that cable news is so much less engaging today than it was 10, 15 years ago, is because they went down the slippery slope of negativity, negativity, negativity. Right? If you turn on your local news, you're going to hear 10 negative stories about car crashes and murders and whatnot before you hear about the positive things going on in your community. But over the course of decades, that has caused all of us as consumers to really lose our enjoyment in the news. When the news first started posting about all these negative things, it grabbed our attention. The first ever car chase that was televised on the news became a nationally televised event that millions of people tuned in for. But now, even likely as I'm speaking right now, there are probably dozens of car chases going on around the United States and around the world, but most of them you probably won't even hear about because there's just so much negativity and the news is filled with so much negativity that it's lost its luster, if you will. And so, as a content creator, I want you to first of all know that using words like no, that is N O, not K N O W, but no, stop, don't, avoid, lose, quit, those sorts of things grab people's attention. And on average, they grab people's attention more than their positive counterparts. It's the reason that ESPN will use the headline, the team lost the game, rather than the other team won the game. Or if they are talking about the team that won the game, they won't say the team won the game. They will say the team snapped their three-game losing streak. Snapped and lose. Two negative words. So whenever you're writing your scripts, whenever you're coming up with your hooks, whenever you're deciding what the content of the post will actually be, consider, is there a negative angle that I could take? But just make sure not to overdo it. Now, I also want to speak to you as someone who's just a human being, right? As someone who's a business owner, as someone who's trying to grow on Instagram, like I said at the very beginning of this fourth lesson about human psychology, it is by far one of the biggest biases of our Insta Club Hub members to focus on the negative, to focus on the unfollows or the post that didn't get a lot of views or to compare their own stats to someone else's stats.

And I'm not going to sit here and tell you that the negatives don't exist or that you need to not pay attention to them, but I do think it's important to number one, remind yourself of the positives. Number two, to be grateful for what you have and to literally write out lists that show what you are grateful for. And number three, to remember that social media exists in kind of two polar opposite extremes that are super bad for your mental health.

One of which being you are only seeing other people's wins. You're only seeing other people's highlight reels, success stories, and triumphs on social media, especially on Instagram. And you, for yourself, are only seeing your own negative things because of the negative bias. you're only seeing your own low views, low engagement, unfollows, lack of growth. And so that's super unhealthy. The reality is likely somewhere a lot more in the middle.

People aren't having as many successes as they try to portray on Instagram. And you are having way more successes than you probably realize if you're just scrolling and not thinking about it. Listen, I totally get it. Hiring help for your business is scary. It's frustrating. And it is such a headache. But it shouldn't have to be that way because Upwork makes it easy to hire specialized freelancers quickly. You can browse profiles, review past work, and get help scoping out the role so you can hire with confidence and get started quickly. And with Business Plus, you can access the top 1% of talent on Upwork with AI powered shortlisting so you can get matched with the right freelancer in less time without having to do endless searching. Visit upwork.com to post your job for free. Again, that's upwork.com to get connected with the top talent ready to help your business grow. That's upw.com.

upwork.com. The fifth thing that I've learned about human psychology is what I like to call the say, do need gap. And the say, do need gap is what people say they need or want is very different from what they actually take action on. What they do and that is also very different from what they actually need. And when you understand these three things, it's going to totally change how you post and how you sell and what you sell. And here's what I've learned as an example.

By far the number one thing that my followers say that they want is more followers. But then when it comes to what they actually do, they are constantly chasing viral post ideas. It's always about viral posts, trending audios, and things that will make you get a ton of views. But then neither of those things are what they need in my opinion, which are systems, strategies, and the mindsets necessary to grow their Instagram. If I were to make a post about the mindsets you need to grow on Instagram, no one would watch that video. But as soon as I make a video about seven viral real ideas, it blows up. We did a live training earlier this year in the Insta Club about the systems for success. And it was one of our lowest attended live workshops of the entire year. Yet, it is also the workshop that has gotten the most positive feedback from the people who did attend it. Because the people who did attend, they realized that they are getting what they need and they are finally able to have success as the result of watching that recording. But systems are not sexy and the strategies and the mindsets that you need are not necessarily what most people go to when they're thinking of what they want.

There's also this principle or analogy that I think about often called the chocolatecovered carrot. And the chocolate covered carrot is basically that most people don't want the carrot. They don't want the healthy thing, the thing that's good for them, the thing that they actually need. They want the chocolate, the thing that is a quick fix, the thing that is dopamine, the thing that is really sweet and that feels rewarding for a moment. And so as a business owner, as someone who is posting on social media, it is your job to create the chocolatecovered carrot, the thing that looks very enticing from the outside and it portrays or comes across as exactly what people are looking for, exactly what they say they want, and exactly what they are going to choose when they have a bunch of different options. But then once they bite into it, yes, they are initially getting the thing that they came for, the chocolate, but they're also getting the thing that they need, the thing that's going to ultimately help them the most in the long run, which is the carrot. The sixth thing that I've learned about human psychology is that discipline beats motivation. A question that I often receive is, "Brock, how do you stay so motivated?" I've now posted, at the time of recording this, almost 2,000 straight days on Instagram. How do you stay so motivated? And the reality is I don't. There are plenty of days where I'm not motivated, but I have the discipline to stick to what I've set out to do. I have the discipline and I think not to uh you know toot my own horn but I think that that was honed over years and years of being an athlete and being a college football player like I was I developed that discipline as a muscle that I can rely on so that even when I'm not feeling motivated to make content or motivated to show up on Instagram, I still have the discipline to show up anyways. But the reality is that systems beat both of those things. systems beat both discipline and motivation because there are going to be days where even the most disciplined person is just literally not going to be able to create content. Even the most disciplined person is going to have life get in the way. Even the most disciplined person is going to get married like I did. And I still posted multiple times on the day of my wedding. Not because I was disciplined on that day, but because I had systems that were already in place that allowed me to show up to provide for my audience, to grow my audience, to serve my followers, and to ultimately engage with more people and grow my business as a result because I had systems that were already in place. Now, again, as I talked about just a few minutes ago, systems aren't sexy, but systems are necessary if you want to get off the hamster wheel of having to rely on motivation and/or discipline. And then the seventh and final thing that I've learned as I've amassed over two billion views on Instagram. And this one has not just been amassed from my own conclusions from getting views, but also from going to creator workshops and going to can lions and meeting all these other creators who have posted thousands of times and have millions of followers is that delusional optimism is required.

This belief that everything will work out and that everything is figure outable. That is essentially what is required if you want to have success on social. Delusional optimism beats imposttor syndrome. That's not to say that you're never going to have doubts. It's not to say that you're never going to have imposter syndrome. But that is to say that more times than not, the majority of the time, your thought is this is going to work out. This post is going to go viral. My ideas are great.

I'm only one post away from success. I am funny. I am a good storyteller. I am engaging. I am a good content creator. This kind of goes back to point number three about how everyone can smell your BS in the same way that everyone can smell if you're a phony, if you're a fake, if you're just in it for the money. People can smell it if you truly believe in yourself. If you truly think that your posts are funny, if you truly think that your content is good. And people want to be around people like that. No one wants to follow someone or be in the same room as someone who is a constant Debbie Downer, who's constantly doubting themselves, who's constantly second-guessing everything they're doing. And so some amount of delusional optimism, some sort of, you know, internal belief that just is unshakable is necessary if you want to really build a big audience and grow your personal brand on Instagram. I've even heard it said that you need a certain amount of narcissism. And I kind of believe that's true. I mean, to believe that you are not only able, but that you are deserving of having a massive audience is something that is a little bit narcissistic. And so I'm not saying that you need to be a narcissist to grow on Instagram, but there is some degree of narcissism required, some degree of I have a unique story to tell. I have a unique problem that I have solved. I have some sort of special gift or talent or ability that the world needs to see.

And I want to be the person who tells you that that is true for you. You are watching this episode and you are hearing my voice right now because I believe that there is some story that you have to tell or some problem that you have solved or some people out there that you can truly help. And yes, it does require some narcissism. does require some delusional self-belief to be willing to post about yourself and to post about the lessons you've learned, the problems you've solved, whatever it may be on Instagram in order to find that audience. So, I hope you believe in yourself. I believe in you. And as always, happy networking. [music]
