Just trust your gut. This is advice whether it's from Oprah or from Steve Jobs. The broke, the fat, the lonely, they trust their gut everyday as they become more and more miserable. But once you understand these cognitive biases that I'll cover in this video, then the world is going to make a whole bunch more sense to you and you'll be able to make a whole bunch more money from it. Now, if you know how to sell, you will never be broke, but selling is confusing because buyers are irrational.

However, they are consistent in their irrationality and once you understand this, you'll design better offers, communicate those offers more clearly in a way that their value can be better understood, and you can actually save people from themselves. Now, con men use these eight biases to separate good folks from good money, but you will use these to serve help and impact the world. I hope at least. And I share these with you not as a clinician or a cognitive psychologist, but as a businessman who has used these eight biases to make eight figures online across dozens of different industries.

If you're ready, let's dive in. Cognitive bias number one, belief perseverance. No, it's simple. See, they created this cover-up to cover-up that cover-up to cover-up that cover-up to cover-up the other cover-ups. Here's something fascinating about the human condition is the more you convince somebody that they are wrong, the more they believe they are right. So, if somebody comes to you and says, "Man, Jason, I just can't focus." And you say, "Yeah, you totally can focus." They're like, "Dude, you don't understand me. I don't like you.

And because I'm in a state where I'm unfocused, I will double down on that state. The fact that you don't understand me proves that I'm correct." And so, when we deal with clients on a persuasive basis, we do not try to change beliefs. What we do instead is we make them more uncomfortable holding on to those beliefs. And I know that this sounds like slight of hand, but it isn't. And I'll give you an example. Clients come to me all the time saying, "Jason, webinars, I don't think they work so much anymore." And I say, "Really? Okay, should I quit doing them then?" And they're like, "Well, well, well, hold on a second. Maybe you shouldn't quit doing them. They just don't really work for me." How many times have you tried them? 100, 200, 500 times? You seem pretty confident to assert to me that they no longer work.

And they're like, "Well, I did it one time in the last month." And you're like, "Okay, so help me understand this so I can be clear here. You think one attempt in one situation with one condition means that it doesn't work? And they're like, "Well, okay, maybe that's a dumb way of thinking about it." And this is a principle I've used over and over again is if we can change the feeling around the belief instead of changing the belief, then the belief will automatically collapse if it doesn't serve them. At the same time, we can easily exaggerate a belief to the point that it stretches so long that it breaks. But, I will tell you every day, 99 out of 100 times when I see people have an interaction, somebody comes and they say, "This is how I'm feeling." And the other person tries to convince them, "No, it's not that bad." Instead, it would be better to say, "Whoa, that is terrible. How are you ever going to survive it?" And then having them try to defend a belief that doesn't make sense will allow them to automatically understand that maybe there's a better belief that they should be considering instead. And then when they're in that position that maybe there is a better belief, that's when they are now open to suggestion.

So, what you want to do is you want to take the beliefs that hold your audience back, find ways to make it impossible for those to hold those beliefs and feel good about them, and then be ready with the new belief to install in their place when they turn and ask you, "So, what should I do?" Don't tell them what to do. get them to ask you, "What should I do?" Bias number two, what we call attentional bias. Oh, he's so nicely dressed. He must be trustworthy. So, about a million years ago in psychology, there was this concept called seven plus or minus two.

And this was said to be the bits of information that we can hold in our heads. And actually, this is not true. We have it proven that it's even worse than this. And here's where this came from. They hired him for a phone company when they were trying to determine, "How should we assign telephone numbers?" And so, the idea was, well, if we have a number like this, then that's seven pieces of information. So, just give me a call on my number. It's 1 2 3 4 5 6 7.

And I'm like, well, that's seven pieces of information. But that doesn't actually hold very well because if you have an area code that you're going to attach to that, and I know it's a little bit weirder for those of you that are not in the United States, but this is what a number would look like in the US. It would be area code 5 5 5, and then 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. This is actually nine pieces of information, but it's chunked into three groups. And these chunks are no larger than four pieces per chunk.

And what I've discovered is on any given topic, you are getting into dangerous territory if you push the limit of focus beyond four different pieces. This is why when I communicate, when I tell, when I create anything that I want to have change occur in my audience, I give them very specific targets early on in my presentation. I will say, "Today, we're going to cover these four things. Success by the end of our presentation together will look like this in these three key areas of your life. These are the four challenges you're going to face along the way, and here are the three strategies that we're going to use to overcome those four challenges.

And when I will teach anything, especially when I'm selling, I will typically put it into what I call a road map. I'll say, "When it comes to this problem, there are only three things that really matter at the end of the day." And then I will try to give them each one name. So, source, select, sell. Well, this was a webinar that I did $7 million on when it came to a certain specific business model. I say, "These are the three elements of success.

You've got to source products, you've got to select You've got to select products, I should say. You've got to source them in the right way and then you've got to sell them in the right manner." And people are like, "Okay, there are three main key elements I need to deal with." And then for each one of these, I never give more than four, but usually three ways in which they can attack that. By continually focusing them on just a few pieces of information in their mind and making those information's easy for them to put their attention on, you will have more impact in your messaging. Cognitive bias number three, what we call the Barnum effect.

It's like he knows exactly who I am, therefore he must know how to help me. There's a secret structure of communication that a lot of people just aren't aware of that can make a massive difference in influence and it's properly structured general statements can have such a profound impact on rapport, understanding, and he gets me, which is what you want to have every audience think when you are communicating to them. And these are things along the lines of when I speak to an audience, I'll say, "Listen, whether you find yourself just at the beginning of the journey or if you have some experience in this or even if you've been doing this for a while, what really matters at the end of the day is" and then every single audience member is going to say, "Okay, that relates to me." I don't say, "Some people find themselves at the beginning phase. Some people find themselves in the middle, and some people find themselves in the end. Which one are you?" Uh but, that's how everybody else does it. So, I learned to speak the language of the market while still talking to the individual. And these are why we learn to use conversational hypnosis as much as possible. When you say, "You may discover you have capabilities inside of you that you aren't aware of yet." Now, I didn't say which capabilities. I didn't even say you will discover them.

I just gave you the idea that there are things inside of you that are valuable that you have not quite tapped into yet. And 97% of all audiences, when you craft the proper general statements that I've just described to you, they will 100% agree and nod and go along with what you say. What we try to do is yes at the best, but never no. So, yes at best, but never no. So, you don't say, "You will become more certain as you get more experience." You say, "You may begin to notice you become more certain and operate in ways which are consistent with those certainties when you act."

Not you will be more certain. You don't say, "You are going to do this." You say, "I'm not sure when you will do this in a way that will allow you to feel comfortable enough that you can continue." So, see what I'm doing here? I am artfully vague. And this is what we call this in conversational psychology, conversational hypnosis I should say. I am artfully vague on the cold reads of the market, but I understand universalities of every single market.

And this is what they did when they studied P.T. Barnum, who was one of the greatest showmans of all time. They discovered that there were certain statements that almost everybody in any market would agree to. And one of these statements are, you have some weaknesses inside you, but you can compensate for them. So, most people believe this to be true. I have these issues, but I'm able to overcome them cuz I compensate in these ways. So, we validate the compensation and then we also enable them to no longer be weak in those ways.

People just have such a desperate need for other people to like and admire them. So, whether they will admit it or not, deep down inside, they have this just drive for people to like who they are and admire them. So, I only play in markets where I like the people and I love my audiences and I can admire the efforts that they attempt and to solve their problems. Unfortunately, a lot of people don't go very far in this business because they are cynical and jaded against their audience. They will call their audience lazy and they will say that they don't take action. And it will show up, usually very subtly, in the communication. But I admire an audience who's tried something 99 times and hasn't succeeded yet because it shows me that they're dedicated, that even in the face of difficulty, they can find a way to move on. I don't call that laziness. I call that they haven't been shown the proper path yet to help them move forward. So, people believe that they have a lot of unused dormant capacity inside of them that hasn't been tapped into yet. And I believe it, too. And they believe that there are times when they want to be around others and there are times when they want to be alone.

And I know this is sounds like, duh, obvious, but you should learn to communicate to these basic universal needs of the audience and they will nod their head along with you, nod their head along with you, nod their head along with you, and they will like you because they can tell you like them and they will be more likely to respond with the request that you make. Next bias, the law of triviality. Even though we just spent 25 minutes in the meeting talking about where to put the ping pong tables in the break room, it felt like it was a worthwhile activity to discuss. We tend to major in minor things. And this is a Jim Rohn quote. And the reality is, and this is especially pronounced in groups, this gets psychopathic when you put a group of people together. Now, I'll tell you why individually first of all, is a majority of things, at least 90% of all the considerations when you're trying to get a result, equal about 3% of what is important. So, 90% we call this noise, gives you 3% of the results. And 10%, which is the signal, accounts for the other 97% of success. But we don't think that way.

We think in terms of equality. We think if there's five elements that will contribute to the success, then element one is worth 20%, element two is worth 20%, element three is worth 20%, and so on and so forth. But the reality is, even in small numbers like this, typically one of these elements will be worth 90% and the other elements will be worth something like 5%, 3%, 1%, 1%. So, nothing is fair in life. Nothing is organized neatly as such of the most closed systems possible, like coin flips and things like that. But the brain doesn't understand and can't appreciate nuance very easily, so you have to force it and you have to train it. So, just know whatever you're considering, whatever you're thinking, it's probably trivial. Now, this gets terrible when you get into groups because people feel most comfortable having discussions on things where they share common grounds.

And so, most people, for example, if you are trying to talk about spending a budget of $50 million to allocate to new software development, a majority of people at the table have no reference point to what $50 million is. This is why they will quickly approve, deny, or move past that agenda item, but then they will spend forever on the party for Christmas that's going to happen at the end of the year and what the theme should be. The theme for the party at Christmas doesn't ever make a difference really at the end of the day, but how the budget is allocated will. So, don't focus on common grounds and bring agendas ahead of time that have prioritized what the major things are and limit it to just one of those major things. Now, when it comes to selling, the keyword here is boundaries.

We only allow our clients and our prospects to have conversations around things that matter. And this is what I say to them. When they start asking these little questions that don't really matter at the end of the day, I said, "There's two types of questions that somebody can ask. They can ask nickel-and-dime questions, which really don't matter at the end of the day toward your success, or they can ask hundred-dollar bill questions. These are the things that will make or break you, that will decide whether you should buy or whether you should never buy. So, when we're asking questions, while I will attempt to answer every single one of them, I'm going to prioritize by the hundred-dollar bill questions first, the ones that really matter at the end of the day." And then all of a sudden, the same audience who were asking little silly things like how many times can I log in? And does this come in blue as well as red and pink and purple and green? Those are the only things they know how to ask ask right now. They start asking real questions that will make the difference in whether they should purchase or not. The next cognitive bias, bounded reality. She's not the nicest looking car on the road, but she gets me to where I want to go.

There was a groundbreaking psychological study that determined that people are one of two types. They're satisficers or they're maximizers. And really most people they're satisficers if you will. They look at the thing that is sufficient that will also satisfy their needs. Some people, I hope you are not one of them, are what are called maximizers. Good enough is not good enough. If it's not 100% perfectly the best money for the deal, then they're not going to feel happy with it even if it made them so much money. I had a client once that exited a company uh for a billion dollars. And he had a $1 billion wire transfer coming to him and he felt depressed because he knew that he screwed up. And if he would have just done a couple key moves a little bit earlier on in his business, he could have exited for $3 billion instead. Uh this is neurotic, okay? But this is how people work. But most people in most markets, this is really the breakdown, is about 10% of a market is going to be a maximizer and 90% is going to be a satisficer. So, we prefer to settle for good enough or sufficient versus excellence. And the reason why is because for the time involved and the effort involved and the money involved, it's just not a good use of any of these principles. And so, when we are designing offers, a big part of what we're looking for is how do we not be the best? How do we be the best at a glance? How do we be the best with the least amount of cognition required in order to understand the value for the time in? This is oftentimes where we go to the move where we just say, "Listen, it's just as good, but it's half the time to the results." And so, we don't have to be better than the competition, we're just quicker than the competition.

We don't have to add additional things which can create complication, we remove the unnecessary things and people then say, "Wow, that's really good." You just got to get this through your mind. People don't want objective best, they want subjective best. Once you understand that every prospect has limited understanding, limited mental processing, and limited time limits, then you will design offers within those areas of understanding, processing, and time limitations. The next cognitive bias, paradox of choice.

>> There's nothing good to watch on Netflix. Here's something that's crazy is the more choice that we have, the more unhappy we are. So, more choices equal less happiness. So, we have Spotify, we have Apple Music, we have YouTube Music, and yet we tend to be more frustrated now because we think, "Well, gee, if I would have listened to this instead of that, then I could have been happier. What music am I missing out on that I would love to hear, but I don't even know exist?" And every single day there's more music that is published than you could ever consume, so you increase the FOMO and it gets crazy. And nowhere is this more pronounced than market segments. Um this is so difficult for so many people that I coach to get this through their head. If we delete 90% of the market, we will make more money by just focusing on 10%. We do not want to be all things to everyone. We want to be a few things to a few people, and we just want to be the best at those few things to those few key people. This is where the money is made. The easiest way to get to the other 90% by the way is to be excellent to the 10% and I'll give you a case study on this. So, once upon a time we had this product that was called Launchpad and it was very similar to ClickFunnels. So, ClickFunnels is this builder that would teach you and show you with clicks of a button how to build certain funnels that you could launch your products in. So, you know, squeeze page here, thank you page here, upsell them to this page, downsell to that page, that kind of thing. Um and ClickFunnels retailed for $297 a month at the highest price point price tier.

Ours retailed for $1,000 a month. ClickFunnels audience was essentially everyone. All right? Our audience was Amazon sellers and specifically Amazon sellers who were successful already at selling on Amazon. ClickFunnels would have dozens, probably hundreds of funnel uh campaigns and options that you could configure and put together. We had five funnels and they were basically the five best funnels that we found to rank products on Amazon's search engine.

ClickFunnels would have the ability to have a lot of customization. You could custom fonts, backgrounds, etc. Even you could write all the copy you wanted to write. Ours was you couldn't customize anything except for a little bit of copy. You couldn't change the font, you couldn't change the background, you couldn't change the size of the container, and 85% of the copy was already written for you because we can write better copy than 99% of our customers could write. And here's the final thing and this is the most important thing is is you could do certain different tech here that you could connect together or you could optimize for you. The tech was open, ours was closed tech. We hired we hardwired certain technological capabilities that would be impossible for the end user to program on their own and we bake them into the system simply because we locked so many other things down and we were able to sell 3.29 million dollars on a single webinar of a software that 99.9% of the world never seen or never heard. We gave less choices to fewer people, they were just the right few people and we did more for those few people to help them become more successful easier. The next bias, cognitive dissonance. I know I should eat healthy, but I'm on vacation. Here's the crazy thing about us as humans and I just don't get it. It's hard for us to hold two contradictive thoughts in our head at the same time. It is painful to a degree that doesn't make sense to too many people where they say, I I don't get it. If people like things faster, then how come these Michelin star restaurants do 4-hour dinners? I just don't get it. Uh the reality is there's paradoxes and then there's contradictions. Uh so many things that we think are paradoxes are are sorry, things that are contradictions, contradictions are actually paradoxes.

So a paradox is on the surface it it appears as if it contradicts itself, but on further examination, there's actually some poetry to it. There's actually a deeper meaning and reason why these two things that seem at odds can actually coexist. And here's the thing about contradictions. Contradictions are not terrible. The world is messy. If you ever watch one of those uh based on a true story kind of deals, you will find that the true story that actually happened in reality isn't clean as how it appears on the big screen. That's because we want our fiction to be neat and clean because our non-fiction reality is messy and hard to understand and explain. So, when you get to the idea that you don't have to solve every contradiction and it's totally okay for you to do things that don't make sense when you put them side by side, but they allow you to move forward, then you don't have the friction anymore And the chances are it's probably a paradox anyway. Now, let me tell you how this applies in business and marketing.

It's called congruence. Just make sure that whatever you're doing to the end user appears congruent. I'll give you the example here. We like to do a lot of beta launches. So, we launch a thing and we say, "Listen, I don't know if this will work or not, but we'd like to test it out. We're going to take on a few key people and try it out, see if it works. But, hey, I got to warn you, it's going to be bumpy. We haven't put the whole thing together yet and we're making it up as we go along, but so far the results we've gotten are promising and I wanted to get it in your hands as fast as possible." Now, when I teach this to clients, they say, "Okay, got it, Jason.

I'm going to go do a beta launch." And then they put together the most professional-looking pages and designs you've ever seen. And I'm like, "You can either be professional or you can be in beta, but you can't be both." And even if audiences don't understand this consciously, unconsciously, something feels off. So, just sanity check your congruence from start to finish when you're launching your business and marketing campaigns and your positions because if two things are at odds with each other and they appear contradictive, your audience will feel uncomfortable with them. The next bias, affect heuristic.

I just walked across hot coals. Now, I can do anything. The craziness about this is our brain is so powerful. It has It has something that it can do that no other animal can do, which is be logical, but we're almost never logical anyway. Even when we feel like we're logical, notice the word feel. We overvalue emotions so heavily that we allow them to influence the decisions we make to a unbelievably crazy degree. So, the whole idea of like the gut feeling, people will only remember when their gut was right, they will value that, and then they will think they should always act according to their gut feeling. But, what they don't realize is that just because it feels good and feels right doesn't make it right. And if it feels uncomfortable, that in and of itself isn't sufficient to make it feel wrong because most of the areas of growth live in what are uncomfortable habitats initially. Now, what we want to do when we sell is we want to minimize the feeling of discomfort, so we want to do everything that we can to bring that down, and we also want to maximize the types of emotions that people base decisions around. So, if you ask somebody some ask them this question sometime, this is an NLP question. Think of a time you made a really good decision, and then you get the person to think, and then you can say, "How do you know it was a good decision?" And they'll say, "Well," and then they'll give you a bunch of content that doesn't really matter. But, you say, "No, no. Where does the good decision first show up as a feeling in your body?" "Oh, well, it starts right here." And they'll tell you if you ask them, right? And how do you know versus a bad decision? Where is the feeling different when it's a bad decision versus when it's a good decision? How did you know it was a good decision looking back on it? And then when you made a bad decision, how did you know it was a bad decision only when you look back on it later? Like, we are giving what's called the decision-making criteria.

We are eliciting it to know how this person feels like something is good or bad. It is not logical, but it is the code in which they make their decisions. And this is so, so powerful because you'll very quickly realize that people, when they feel negative emotions, they start to overvalue and oversubscribe and overweight negative emotions. And they undervalue the logical positive rewards. They will literally think a dollar to risk is $10, and they will think the reward for $10 is $2. And you will sit there scratching your head thinking, "Well, I don't get it. This is the best deal in the world."

And yet they're still not buying. So, we have to help people remove the emotional baggage that gets in the way of the decisions that they should make so they can properly ascertain and understand value.
