Hello. Uh, it is fantastic to be at the grill. Thanks to Sharon and the entire team at the RAP for having us. I'm Brent Weinstein. I am part of the senior leadership team at CIA where I oversee our digital media work. And before we jump in, I want to address uh a I guess elephant in the room that Darmman is not on stage. Uh, his wife uh they're having a baby and it came a little quicker than we thought. First of all, happy for Dar.

Uh, I'm thrilled to be here. I'm thrilled to be here with Shawn, which was always part of the plan, and Tony, who so graciously stepped in uh at the last minute. And I'm going to ask them just to briefly introduce themselves, then we'll get into the conversation. So Sean, why don't we start with you? >> Uh I'm now an uncle. Um the um uh my name is Sean Atkins. I'm CEO of Darmman. I've been there for about a year. Previous to Darmman, uh I've worked at every major media company except for Comcast NBC. Um, so, um, I'll have a lot of war stories I'm sure we'll talk about over the course of the panel.

>> Fantastic. And Tony, thank you for being here. Why don't you briefly give us a quick intro? >> Hi, I'm Tony Gray. I'm head of production at Darmman Studios. I've been there about seven months now. I come from Linear Television, Fremantle, MGM, Prior. >> So, thank you for being here. And as we're going to talk about today, uh, the way that Darmman Studios manages production is unlike anything most of you, most of us have ever seen. and and Tony's a big part of that. So, thank you for joining us. Um Sean, as you've mentioned, you've worked for a lot of media companies. Most of them were fairly traditional. Uh and then, you know, you and I together many years ago.

Uh you started migrating towards digital media. And you know, let's talk about that migration and in particular, what made you excited to make the leap to a creator centric company like Darmman Studios? Yeah, like I always tell people if you um cover the names on my resume, what you'll see is I clearly am attracted to new growth where the opportunity is. And so uh I've always sort of acted as if I was the audience. So my career was like I went into cable when all my classmates at USC film school went into one of the theatrical films because I didn't have any contacts. It was the only thing I could break into. And then I went into the internet when everybody else is like that's never going to be anything. So I always sort of went to where the audience went. So it wasn't a surprise that sort of as creators were coming up that I sort of thought that was the next thing to do. In particularly what attracted me to DAR is for those of you who've ever had a chance to see his facilities. It's like it's a little bit shocking. You sort of think that's what's happening in the industry and then you see what DAR has done. That was my first aha moment. The second aha moment is if you follow Dar's story, it's not the story of somebody who grew up every day being like I want to be a creative. It's actually a story of somebody who went through like every failure or challenge one could go through in their life. religious persecution, racial persecution, abusive relationships, you know, going bankrupt, getting in trouble of the law. Like I told it was like from a story structure, it's like everything you could put your hero through, he went through. And as he sort of got to this low point in his life in his 30s, he realized that uh his way out through depression and all those sort of challenges was that he listened to stories about other people being successful and that he started to realize that you know the story that the great human universal story is that it almost failure is almost a prerequisite for success and that inspired him to just start talking a camera and lo and behold that begat what became Darmman Studios and so the chance to be part of a storyteller whose story is so organically who they are and what they want to put into the world, put good content and the fact it's obviously so resonant is a really hard thing to say no to when you're sort of standing there having that conversation with someone like D.

>> That's amazing. And you know Tony similarly you got your start at Fremantle and a number of you know really traditional production companies and here you are working for arguably the biggest and certainly most voluminous in terms of output uh digital content studio in the world. How did you, you know, find yourself making that migration? >> It was really interesting. So, like I posted a LinkedIn um post a little bit ago. Like when I decided to jump out of linear television, it was really tough because like that defined me for so many years of my life and it was so different that Hollywood frowned upon jumping into that world into this world. And I have to tell you that it is a totally different life. It is an incredible culture. It's collaborative. We basically tell stories at the water cooler. We can make those stories. We can ideulate and deliver in 30 days. So I come in and speak to the showrunner about something that happened to me on a weekend. He writes it and the show goes viral. It's it's amazing to see something happen that fast. You have no network notes. You have no downtime. You know, it doesn't have to be green lit.

We just come back and do it. >> That's amazing. Um, for people in the audience who maybe aren't as familiar with Darmman, Sean, the numbers are just staggering subscribers and and and annual views and uh the engagement, you know, maybe talk about some of those highlights so people can get a sense of the scale. >> Yeah. So to put it in in context, uh when Dar started, he was just talking to camera about a year into his first, this is in 19 in 2018, uh 2018, uh about the end of the year, he saw he's writing a story on a napkin, which today we will retroactively call a script. Uh and he saw two people in his apartment sort of doing the thing he was writing about. He looked up and he's like, "Hold this moment. Can you mind?" By it was his brother-in-law and his wife's best friend. Do you mind sort of just doing this while I shoot it? That was the very first scripted thing that Dar did that went to a million views in 2018. The very next scripted, well, it actually was a script in all intention video he made 250 million views. So within his first year, by the end of 2019, he was the number one video streamed creator on all of Facebook. By 2020, he was the number two behind Jimmy on uh YouTube.

Put that into actual hard metrics. The thing you have to understand about DAR is we actually make 16 by9 halfhour television episodes. We do about five half five hours of television volume a week and it's about a 1.2 billion long form streams per month. If you look at on a daily basis, his content does somewhere around 45 million streams uh just for on the library alone, which would make that any day of the week his streams would have outperformed the finale of Game of Thrones by three times.

>> Correct? So you give you sort of the context of the volume. If you just actually if I wanted to play against Neielson I was like okay I'll take all the views just do US just do prime time just do 18 to 49. He'd be the largest scripted television show on US linear television every single night to give you a sense of scale. >> Five nights a week. >> Five nights a week >> Tony. Yeah that's incredible. Somehow all that content has to get made. 30 minutes a day. Five days a week. 30 day production cycles from an idea to it, you know, being on the internet.

>> How do you do that? >> Nobody sleeps. >> Exactly. >> No, actually, we have an incredible culture at the company, which I love so much. Um, we have about eight crews. We'll be ramping up to nine by the end of the year. Um, we run simultaneously all the time. We have three different studios. I'm sure you know you mentioned we have about a 125,000 square ft of space. We have about 90 different sets um and we just turn out crews non-stop.

>> I think one of the things to understand is that to get that level of efficiency you have to sort of think different and I think one of the things that makes Dar interesting I was attracted to coming to work for him was because he did not come from traditional media and this is actually true of entrepreneurs in a lot of different businesses. the entrepreneurs who have a tendency to break the format or break the model is because they don't come from the industry. So, they don't know all the rules. So, in Dar's case, when he wrote his first like half hour television show, >> he didn't know that you needed like 200 crew. He's like, I need a camera and a script. That was literally it. And so, when you come into the studio, to Tony's point, like a lot of what Tony's put in place is like unbelievable efficiency, right? So you have a lot of specialization that happens a lot of um things for example we built a completely bespoke software system that when a script is written it is ingested into the software system immediately broken into all the component parts shot to the different departments. So if you're sitting in wardrobe you get a checklist that says of these nine productions going on today the following outfits for this actor or actress need to be in this location at this period of time done.

Right? So there's no people involved. It's literally just software that delivers that. And at the same time, the same thing happens at the end of the day. And so out of that, you get this unbelievable efficiency where they'll produce a TV episode for approximately 1/100th the cost of a linear average episode. >> It's amazing. I I think when many people think of internet content or social media content, they think of creators in their bedroom or in their garage or running around the streets, you know, filming prank videos with an iPhone. Uh what you do is more like operating a backlot. Uh, I joke, although I'm not sure I'm all that far off, that the facade frontage that you have in your studio is probably equivalent to that of most back lots at a major studio. And and what's astounding to me is how thoughtful you use space. Uh, if you go down one hallway and film it from one perspective, it's a cl it's like a high school, but when you go in the other direction, it's an apartment building.

You have classrooms that can be turned into movie theaters. I mean it it's really amazing how malleable uh the space is. Can you talk a little bit about how that evolved because now you're in three warehouses in Burbank. Uh and it's like nothing any of us have ever seen in this particular sector. >> Yeah. What's sort of funny is and it's um is it sort of started on accident, right? Because Dar and Laura who founded the company were shooting it in their in their apartment and then COVID hit. So you couldn't get space anywhere else as they were growing. So they rented a location. It was too big for the businesses that they were running at the time, which they ran two beauty businesses and they were starting a Darmman Studios. And so, uh, they rented this large space and they were just going to use a part of it and sublet it.

And they had enough money to build one set. So, they built the first set, which is a small little apartment. When you walk in, when we do the tour, we walk you into it first. Like, this is where it started. And then they had enough money and they built a second set. And then enough money and they built a school set. And so, when you come into DM1, it's actually a little bit um, scattershot, right? to your point where you'll see today um when I was doing a tour, someone's walking to I'm like, "Oh, this is a hospital." And then we turn the corner and they look at it, they're like, "It actually looks like the governor's office." I'm like, "Today it's a governor's office, but it was built to be a hospital. Um it also plays at a school. It plays like So part of it was because you have to think at different economics." The other thing that's to your point about space is if you go through the studios, you'll notice because we do multi-quadrant, multigenerational um uh content that everything you need to shoot an episode is actually self-contained in one of the lots, right? If you need a school, places to work, retail establishments, they're all in one location. So that comes from the data analysis because we look at the crew space every single like quarter and then we'll reoptimize the sets based on efficiencies of production. We're like, "Oh, it turns out that we stopped down too many times because we've been using this one beauty salon and it's causing us a problem in capacity. We'll build another one in another set to sort of open that up. So it's always about using data to analyze the efficiency to make sure that we can kind of keep that cost efficiency down for for the kind of digital economics." you know, Tony, when when you're, you know, managing the output that Darmman is responsible for, when you start doing the math, you know, you know, billions of of of views times 30 minutes per video, you start to get the watch time that is, you know, as big or bigger as anything in traditional media. How do you keep it fresh? How do you make sure that when you're on your 400th video of the year that you're like, "Oh, wait, wait, wait. You know, we're not you. Let's make sure we don't use the exact same set in the exact same sequence that we used, you know, in another video. How do you keep it all straight?

>> It's definitely a puzzle, but it's the collaboration of the entire team. Like, they're incredible. So, we'll talk amongst ourselves and we have pre-pros and we'll even change things in pre-pro and we because we have such an incredible team. If we do feel like something has just been seen, they'll be changing it while we're doing the table read at the same time. So, and everybody comes in with ideas all the time. And like I said, we take the real life ideas that happened in the week with everyone and we just have such this collaborative team that we'll say what happened on the weekend. We had went to a party and then we write it and it goes into scripting the following day.

>> And how big's the team? How many people work at Darmman Studios? >> We have about 200 people. >> It's amazing. All full-time employees. >> That's incredible. Um, you know, Sean, I've always been blown away by many stories that come out of what happens at at Darmman. The Christmas, you know, uh, special was was one that I think is particularly entertaining. I think the audience would love to hear it. >> So, for those of us who've been in, uh, traditional media and know the the the loving phrase development hell, which is like, you know, um, spend your time behind trying to make a story work or break a story and you could spend a year, two years making something happen.

Uh, true story. We're going to be doing the very first um Christmas movie, full 90 90-minute length movie for DAR uh studios this year. And it literally happened in one day. So, in the morning, uh, me and Dar were sitting around with Reuben, who's our showrunner. We're like, "Hey, we think we want to do a we should probably do a Christmas movie." By the by lunchtime, we're like, "That's a pretty good idea." We started throwing log lines around. By the afternoon, we uh were talking to Tony about like, "What do you have the production capacity for it? when do we need to get started? And by that evening, we actually had written out the treatment and sent it off to a writer. And so that actually was uh 24 hours from idea to actually going into writing and it's going into production in about a week.

So it's going to be our very first movie. And and I would tell you having done those before in my previous career, that would have been a conversation that took me about a year. >> That's amazing. And it is it going to be released on Christmas or >> uh we're well it's >> we might move it because we're doing we're not just doing a movie we're doing the 12 days of Christmas and based on a couple conversations we're having with brand partners the dates might have to move. So is latest premiere be Christmas Eve?

>> Uh you mentioned brand partners and I'll stick with you for a moment. Uh you have these amazing facades. You know they're generic. It's a generic movie theater a generic uh you know uh perfume store. a generic shoe store in the mall. Uh it seems like there's lots of opportunities to work with brands and frankly lots of partners. So, you know, as you think of and who knows who's in the audience today, as you think of uh the types of partners that you're excited to work with, uh is there any in particular that uh that that come to mind as we think about what you're capable of there and the type of people who might be here?

>> Yeah, I think the first thing, you know, we we care about the mission of the company, right? The mission of the company is to put good into the world. Um, you know, if you talk to Dar and Laura, very r very, not that they're not savvy business people. They're very rarely being like, what's the dollar we're going to make on it? It's very much like, is this on the mission to put good content in the world that families feel comfortable with that we think is making the world a better place? They're teaching sort of values in the kind of universal human sense uh through storytelling. And so that's question one. So we look for that in partners, right? So I sort of say to people when they ask me like we're definitely not going to be working with Smith and Wesson anytime soon, right? Not not not that that that that's a judgment I'm making, but it doesn't align with sort of the values of the company. The second thing that we think about is the long-term nature of it because as a creator you live and die on the relationship with the creator and it's so immediate and so connected and so real. You have to be authentic. And because we do scripted content and in the scale that we do it at, it's pretty authentic if a brand came to me and said, "Hey, can you turn the the uh coffee shop in there to a Starbucks for one episode and then I have to switch it back to something else. It just doesn't feel real." The inverse of that for the brands we work well with is that they understand we're emotional storytellers.

If you're a brand, what do you want to be associated with? Just pure spectacle or you want to be associated with kind of deep emotional connection, which is what we do. And then our number one comment uh from our fans in the in the comment list on any analysis says the word crying. Uh it gives a sense of sort of what we do. Um and so the brands that we're having conversations with are really about almost like I would say it's almost like Dar as chief creator officer. It's really a long-term relationship where they're going to be one of a very small subset of people.

They're going to be deeply embedded to many of the facades, many of the story lines. A story I I used as an example with one brand the other day. Okay, they were like, "Give me an example of like how you're different." I said, "Well, you could have Dar in the middle of the thing, like in the middle of emotional scene and be like, buy Avon, right?" Which is the typical creator way to do it. Or the example we did for a big gaming company. It was like we did a episode about a half hour show about a about a young teen whose dream was to be a streamer and that people didn't believe in the dream and so they had to kind of kind of accomplish it on their own. So, traditional heroes arc. What do you think the 72 shots of video game footage were about in that hero's journey without us ever saying a thing?

It was this one product and it went from like 27 in the app store to number two instantaneously without sort of like a because it was a very organic real way to bring a product into the brand and that's sort of the direction that we're going in and the the CMOs who really want to get in bed with us are having those sort of conversations with us. what uh you're known as being a a a studio that primarily distributes on social platforms like YouTube and and Facebook, but you're expanding. Uh most recently, uh there was a deal where uh you not only created a fast channel with Samsung TV Plus, but I think you might have been the first partner of Samsung to actually have original content baked into that type. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah. So I mean look the our we are born of social and that's our first love and but doesn't mean that we don't want our content to move anywhere. I always tell people like wherever DAR has moved his content it's been successful.

I one I like to make a joke about is we put our content for example on Spotify right scripted dramas. We're a top 100 podcaster. It's not a podcast right? So because it's these universal themes that work globally. And so Samsung saw that they saw our production capability. So they came as a very different perspective. It wasn't like we'll license your library and then we'll do everything. It was more like what do you want to do? How do you want to reach the audience? How can you use user resources? Because by the way making television shows for fast at the traditional model is expensive. And so that was interesting an interesting way.

So the way we have a tendency to have the conversations with partners is they're trying to figure out how to reach the audiences on their platform, what they care about, and then they want to have a conversation with us when it's successful about how do we use our audience reach and our infrastructure to think about a different model to help achieve what they want without going through the traditional long production uh cycles, without going through the traditional long development cycles. cuz we could go to like an SVOD player and for the same cost of a traditional thing, give them probably 10 times the volume at a similar quality, which would allow them to almost act like YouTube.

That one worked, that one didn't, that one worked, that one didn't. And our turnaround time, because as Tony said, is like 30 days. If you renewed something, you don't wait 18 months, you wait like 30 days. >> There's a uh uh what is hopefully a sustained uh revival in people going to the movie theaters. Uh and there's some fantastic data that uh Eduardo Akuna, who's the CEO of Regal, who was here earlier, has shared uh about how one of the biggest cohorts that are going to the theaters are uh people that were born after 2010 and they're going there to escape their digital lives and they're going there to have a communal experience and that seems to be right in line with your demographic. Do you ever see Darmman uh making content for theaters or >> It's funny, I think it'd be the And I actually told him this last night. I said it's sort of uh the perfect partnership because obviously we have a huge cohort of that generation. Uh the second thing is if you think about it um probably the number one thing that DAR the company gets asked by fans is can I be in a Darmman episode because it's so universal in its themes. It's so relatable and the audience really feels a sense of ownership to so they feel like it's accessible to them. The second thing we get asked the most is can you tell my story? Because every human being, everyone in here, if I spend enough time with you, has some fascinating story of where you're being persecuted or challenged or not being able to live up to the ideals that you want to and then you came through that on the other side of learning, which is sort of what our value proposition is.

And so we think actually the opportunity is to kind of sort of do a bit of a national tour with all that facility space that they have and have people come in, tell their stories, put them on social and then allow the community in those local towns to sort of choose the story they want for us to make and premiere in that in that DMA. >> That's an amazing also put it on our socials which would be a real way to sort of use that facility and have a reason to go to the theater on top of the experience you get watching movies which I love but also another experience to draw them in there for that exper that community experience. So, uh, before we wrap up, because our our time was winding down, you know, to you, Tony, uh, you told me an amazing anecdote about when your Tesla died and and how that, uh, exemplified >> uh, what's possible at a company as dynamic and nimble and innovative as Darmman Studios, I think it'd be a great story to end with.

>> I was at a summit much like this one. My phone died. I was like, it's fine. I'm amongst friends. It was late. I walked out to my car and was like, I can't get in my car because I only have my phone with me. So, being the production person that I am, I had my computer so that I could use my computer to charge my phone to get into my car. But I went back the next day and I told my showrunner the story of like, I'm the blonde girl left in the parking lot, can't get in my car, and then he wrote a story line about it and it went viral. So, it happened that fast, that quick. And that's what I said like we create stories every day in our lives that everybody can relate to. And when I tell that story to other people, I can't even tell you like five people already that I have already told that story to, the same exact thing happened to them. So they're watching these videos and they become a part of the actual video itself because they too have that story that we can relate to and then we can tell the rest of the world. So once again, uh, thank you to Sharon Waxman. Thank you to everyone at the RAP. Congratulations to Darmman and his expanding family. Thank you so much to Sean, who we anticipated being here, and to Tony, who literally raced here when we called her 90 minutes ago. Uh, and thanks to all of you for being a great Thanks for having us. Thank you.

>> Thank you. [Applause]
