So, something weird is happening on YouTube right now, and most creators haven't even noticed yet, which gives you a distinct advantage. Fitness channels are using the visual language of finance creators, and a channel about Minecraft just blew up by using the same format of a video about an NFL player. It is the new strategy quietly dominating YouTube right now, and it's called nichebending. The term was coined by creator Tim [music] Danilov and it's how he took a faceless YouTube channel from 0 to $56,000 a month in just 30 days. And then he did it again, taking another channel from zero to 150 million views. And then again, 0 to $23,000 in less than 90 days. So if you're still trying to find a niche in 2026, quite frankly, you're doing it all wrong. You need to start bending one into a position so it does all of the work for you. To understand how Tim did this time and time again, you almost have to unlearn what you think a niche is. Most people think a niche is just a [music] topic like I have a gardening channel. But Tim doesn't operate with that type of thinking. >> I think it's the easiest way to [music] come up with a niche because like essentially your niche is the combination of the format [music] and the market. >> You see, your niche isn't just a topic you talk about. To be more specific, it's the combination of the market you're serving and the format you're using. First, you have the market. And these are massive categories from finance to fitness, gaming to DIY, and so on. And these rarely ever change. You can't really invent a new market. But then you have the format. This is the container for your content. How do you deliver the information? Is it a tier list, a 100 day challenge, a video essay? >> There are thousands of new formats every single day on YouTube. Like that's the the most creative part. And what the niche bending is is you create a new niche by applying the viral format to the market where it was never used before. >> And this is already happening everywhere on YouTube. Let me show you. Here's a video from NFL Stories, a small but very successful channel about grid iron. I can't say football. It isn't football. But anyway, that's the market. his video. This video will change the way you see Patrick Mahomes forever is the format and it's a video that's performed well for the channel to the tune of 75,000 views. About three and a half times more views than typical for the channel. Now look at this Minecraft channel made by Rafa. 4 days later they posted this video will change how you play Minecraft forever. It's the same exact title structure and the same promise but it's for an entirely different audience. In other words, different market, same format. And then my matrix did the same thing in the spirituality niche. And it's a 100 times outlier for his channel. That is what you call a viral moment. And this is one format in three completely different markets, all finding out success. That is the power of niche bending. Now then, for a quick hack to niche bend any video on YouTube, you can use this cool little Vid IQ remix tool. What it will do is remix the title of the current video to fit your niche. In this example, the channel where niche bending into is about weight loss and fitness workouts. And so the remix titles from the NFL video reflect that. This handy tool is at your fingertips wherever you are on YouTube because it'll also appear on homepages and channel pages as well. There's a link in the description. If you want to witness an absolute masterclass of this strategy, let me introduce you to Tazoo. At first glance, this looks like a gaming channel. The thumbnails have S tier rankings, health bars, and knockout screens. But in reality, it's an animal biology channel. So, let's run it through our equation. The market, zoologology, education, nature documentaries. Usually, this market is traditional, very considered, arguably quite slow and boring by today's standards. Think David Atenburgh. It's a calm narration. A giant black void larger than all the rest of the world's habitats combined. But the formats, it's competitive gaming. It's patch notes, tier lists, and it's not just the packaging. This time, Tazu took the very serious concept of evolution and bent it into gaming language. As a result of this format, the creator doesn't describe things in a matter-of-act way, such as humans adapting to the environmental conditions. Instead, he says >> this was the first step towards refining the cooperative loot sharing play style that have made humans so dominant in the current meta. Now, you might be surprised to learn that the devs have nerfed humans in the past. The tree dwelling strategy was seen as a cheap way to avoid dealing with other players, and so the devs decided to reduce the number and size of trees in the Africa server. And when comparing one environment to another, such as the Amazon rainforest and the African plains, >> I know I drone on a lot about how OP African builds are, but the Amazon rainforest is home to some of the most fearsome predators in the game. >> And as for extinction level events, well, it's just a patch update to him. So why is it that of all the sloth builds, only the tree sloths survived the anthroposine update? Well, it turns out that it's for the same reason that they're low tier. Most Ice Age top tiers were wiped out by the invasion of humans, and giant [music] ground sloths were no exception. Despite being able to easily one-shot humans with their claw swipes, giant sloths had no defense against projectile. So, why does this work so well? Well, it's because it unlocks a new audience. If you make a normal nature documentary, you're competing against the likes of National Geographic. And I'd say that's a pretty tough fight. and a certain audience will watch that content because we all know what to expect from it. But by bending the format, Tazoo is speaking to an entirely new audience who might never watch a traditional nature documentary. And by speaking the audience's language and entertaining them the way they expect to be entertained, he's tricked them into learning something. In essence, what Tazoo has done is take a saturated market, that being nature documentaries, and made it feel brand new by bending into a format container from an entirely different market, that being video games. So, how do you make this work for you? How do you actually find these niche bending combinations without guessing? Well, that brings us to the mapping method, and it works like a grid. First, you pick a format that's been working for years. Let's take the example of every blank explained in X minutes as a format. Now map this across all of the major markets. For gaming, it's taken. As for lifestyle, already taken. And in true crime, yep, gobbled up there as well. But then you look at gardening or sales or interior design and you see an empty square. And when you do see an empty square on that map, this isn't due to a lack of interest. It's an opportunity. It is blue ocean. The format is proven and the market exists, but nobody has yet combined them together. And this is where you can plant your flag. For example, take this out video from Finn's Play. They made a silly meme video, POV. You're an NPC in Vice City. But that silly video got them 2.7 million views on a channel with just 3 and a half thousand subscribers. Now, watch what happens when other creators from different markets see that format and realize it's an empty square on their map. This channel took the same POV, you're an MPC format, and bent it into Minecraft. Their video, The Life of a Minecraft Wolf, got 1.7 million views. Following on from that, this channel bent it towards superhero video game content, playing Spider-Man from an NPC's perspective, and they turned it into a long- form video. It's now got over a quarter of a million views, the highest performing video on their channel so far. This is the same format just brought to different markets with massive results. And every single one of those was an empty square on the map until someone filled it. Now, I appreciate that these specific examples might not bend into your particular niche. Or maybe everyone watching this video right now is scrambling to capitalize on the formats we've already shown you. So, let me demonstrate how you can find these videos yourself. because finding novel formats that will blow up your channel is a lot easier than what it [music] sounds. So, you already know about the remix tool from our browser extension I showed you earlier, but this time I want you to go to vidiq.com and start a brand new conversation with our AI coach. I want you to think of this coach as your YouTube researcher. Vid IQ's data scrapes YouTube and is refreshed every single day. And to be quite honest, other AI chat bots simply don't have the capabilities that ours does. So, next, type this sentence into the chat box. Find me recent viral videos about your niche from small channels that are getting unusually high views. In this instance, we're going to go with the Las Vegas casinos because we can't cheat the casinos, but we can cheat YouTube. Oh, and by the way, you can also ask our AI coach to look at this for just long form videos or shorts. Now, typically it does take a minute or so for the AI coach to get back to you. And that's because it's being very diligent, trolling through thousands, if not millions of videos to find what you're looking for. And a minute is a lot quicker than scrolling through endless YouTube videos for days and weeks, isn't it? Now, in this example, it surfaced five Vegas casinos that will close next. Which casino dies first? It is an insane outlier for this channel with nearly a million longorn views on a 20inute video. Now that title represents a format that we can bend. We could apply this to retail stores, fast food chains, cryptocurrency, game studios, sports franchises that are relocating, which let me tell you would never happen in real football except for that one occasion. We can bend all of these in any way that fits our needs for our channel. However, and this might be the most important part of the entire video, you do need to be careful. There is one rule in niche bending that matters more than anything else. Do not bend a format you cannot deliver the expertise in. So, if you are a dentist, use the gaming tier list to rank toothpaste. That works because you're an expert dentist. But don't try to use a finance format if you don't understand money. Anyone can copy a format, but very few can fill the formats with high value knowledge. The creators winning in 2026 aren't the ones finding magical new niches. They are the ones looking for what already works and asking themselves, "How does this look in my world?" And if you enjoyed the taste of the Vid IQ tools I showed you in this video, why not come and have a look at the whole buffet? Dozens more tools to help you grow your channel are just a click away. I'll see you there.