This is the one key factor that separates the best performing videos. separates the best performing videos. And then after the hook, you want to And then after the hook, you want to actually have a huge drop off and then actually have a huge drop off and then you still maintain 100% ICP. Now the you still maintain 100% ICP. Now the format when it comes to actually format when it comes to actually stripping out the videos is actually stripping out the videos is actually extremely intentional. So that's extremely intentional. So that's essentially the structure of your script essentially the structure of your script and how you follow it. The post and how you follow it. The post production is extremely important for a production is extremely important for a video like this as well. This is [music] video like this as well. This is [music] the make or break for the video.

My name is So We Go and these are my most [music] viral concept pieces broken most [music] viral concept pieces broken down. All right, this one this one's a fun one. &gt;&gt; [music] [laughter] [music] &gt;&gt; Oh, it's such a good feeling. Oh my god. &gt;&gt; Oh, it's such a good feeling. Oh my god. Generally just so blessed to be in a Generally just so blessed to be in a situation where I can situation where I can make my mom feel happy and feel proud make my mom feel happy and feel proud [music] and [music] and just smile the whole time cracking just smile the whole time cracking jokes. Like it was so amazing. jokes. Like it was so amazing. We did it. We [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] did it.

We did it. We [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] did it. That has to be one of my favorite reels That has to be one of my favorite reels of all time. I remember seeing a reel of all time. I remember seeing a reel like this when I was like 16, 17 and I like this when I was like 16, 17 and I was like wow, I want to recreate that was like wow, I want to recreate that one. And so I actually documented that one. And so I actually documented that entire month entire month and I was able to capture the moment and I was able to capture the moment where I told my mom. And so this was where I told my mom. And so this was like one of the most special moments like one of the most special moments because I've literally been wanting to because I've literally been wanting to film a video like this for so long and film a video like this for so long and when the time finally came, it's just

when the time finally came, it's just like like wow, such a surreal feeling. The most wow, such a surreal feeling. The most Asian mom response ever as well. I'm Asian mom response ever as well. I'm probably inspiring a ton of other people probably inspiring a ton of other people to want to create this video. All right, to want to create this video. All right, so let's break down exactly why this so let's break down exactly why this video performed so well and why the video performed so well and why the moment that I saw the video and the post moment that I saw the video and the post production all of that, I knew it was production all of that, I knew it was going to pop, right? So essentially this going to pop, right? So essentially this is a top of funnel video. is a top of funnel video. And

And meaning meaning this reel was applicable to essentially this reel was applicable to essentially the ICP, but also a a general public. the ICP, but also a a general public. Meaning that my ICP, the the the coach Meaning that my ICP, the the the coach that's above 30k a month, 100k a month, that's above 30k a month, 100k a month, 300k a month that would want to get good 300k a month that would want to get good at content would watch this video, but at content would watch this video, but then also the general public will watch then also the general public will watch this video. And so, what that means is this video. And so, what that means is this is a reel that overlaps this. So, this is a reel that overlaps this. So, that reel of making my mom proud is that reel of making my mom proud is something that is an overlap between the

something that is an overlap between the ICP and then the dream follower that I ICP and then the dream follower that I have. And the reason why when you do top have. And the reason why when you do top of funnel videos you want to actually of funnel videos you want to actually have this overlap is because these have this overlap is because these people are the ones that push your video people are the ones that push your video to more people. to more people. And so again, what is our goal with And so again, what is our goal with content anyways? It's to get as many ICP content anyways? It's to get as many ICP leads as possible. Then that means that leads as possible. Then that means that in order to get people into our world, in order to get people into our world, we need to have top of funnel content we need to have top of funnel content that attracts not just the ICP, but the

that attracts not just the ICP, but the dream follower because it'll push our dream follower because it'll push our vid out to more people. And to really vid out to more people. And to really break this down, let me give you guys an break this down, let me give you guys an example. If example. If Instagram shows your video to 100 Instagram shows your video to 100 people. people. And so instead of the visual hook saying And so instead of the visual hook saying like, "Oh, you could Pav, you get your like, "Oh, you could Pav, you get your mom's reaction to making 150k a month at mom's reaction to making 150k a month at 19." If I said, "Hey Pav, you booked 60 19." If I said, "Hey Pav, you booked 60 calls and generated a record month in calls and generated a record month in your business. I promise you that video

your business. I promise you that video would probably get like 20k views, would probably get like 20k views, right? And so, the visual hook and right? And so, the visual hook and everything appealed to a wider everything appealed to a wider demographic. So, out of the 100 people, demographic. So, out of the 100 people, let's say you know, 85 of them would pay let's say you know, 85 of them would pay attention. attention. And out of that 85 of them, that would And out of that 85 of them, that would basically tell Instagram that to push basically tell Instagram that to push your video to more people, which in turn your video to more people, which in turn leads to more ICP followers. So, a lot leads to more ICP followers. So, a lot of times people think that oh, if I only of times people think that oh, if I only want to attract the qualified ICP, I can

want to attract the qualified ICP, I can I should only speak to them. But the The I should only speak to them. But the The is you need to find that dream follower is you need to find that dream follower that has a wider total addressable that has a wider total addressable market so that they can push your videos market so that they can push your videos to attract more of your ICP videos. A to attract more of your ICP videos. A lot of the times the dream follower has lot of the times the dream follower has very very similar hobbies and passions very very similar hobbies and passions as the ICP. So for example, my dream as the ICP. So for example, my dream follower could be someone that's into follower could be someone that's into self-improvement. This is someone that self-improvement. This is someone that is also wants to make more money. This is also wants to make more money. This is also someone that takes care of his

is also someone that takes care of his fitness. And so because this specific fitness. And so because this specific idea and this message in the real appeal idea and this message in the real appeal to not just the ICP but a wider to not just the ICP but a wider demographic, that's why the video demographic, that's why the video performed well. And a lot of people get performed well. And a lot of people get this wrong because they try to skip this wrong because they try to skip straight into middle of funnel content. straight into middle of funnel content. If you skip straight to middle of funnel If you skip straight to middle of funnel content, unless your credibility is content, unless your credibility is top-notch, nobody will give a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about top-notch, nobody will give a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about what you have to say. You have to get what you have to say. You have to get them to actually care about what you

them to actually care about what you have to say first in order to give them have to say first in order to give them value or information and get them to value or information and get them to want to listen to you. A lot of the want to listen to you. A lot of the times times you are going to try and post content to you are going to try and post content to sign clients and immediately try to skip sign clients and immediately try to skip this entire step. But again, the reason this entire step. But again, the reason why this never actually lands is because why this never actually lands is because you didn't go through this part first you didn't go through this part first and you didn't go this part first. And and you didn't go this part first. And essentially, you need to create a bank essentially, you need to create a bank of top of funnel content that will

of top of funnel content that will essentially check off this box of essentially check off this box of admirability so that when you're giving admirability so that when you're giving advice to get to get someone from this advice to get to get someone from this position to that position, position to that position, you need to show that you've climbed the you need to show that you've climbed the mountain first because when you don't mountain first because when you don't show the admirability phase, you show the admirability phase, you essentially look like you're over here. essentially look like you're over here. So when you give value and when you give So when you give value and when you give information and you wonder why it falls information and you wonder why it falls flat is because they don't look at you flat is because they don't look at you as an enough of a enough as an

as an enough of a enough as an authority, which is why lifestyle authority, which is why lifestyle content works so well because the content works so well because the perception is from down up. You need to perception is from down up. You need to make your viewers feel like you've make your viewers feel like you've achieved the dream life, which nine achieved the dream life, which nine times out of 10 you actually have unless times out of 10 you actually have unless you're larping. you're larping. Uh and then actually give value and Uh and then actually give value and information and try to shift beliefs. information and try to shift beliefs. Because when they look at someone that Because when they look at someone that they actually admire and respect, that's they actually admire and respect, that's when they can actually be influenced and

when they can actually be influenced and you're playing a downhill battle, which you're playing a downhill battle, which is much easier than fighting an uphill is much easier than fighting an uphill battle. That video was so perfect battle. That video was so perfect because it hit two birds with one stone. because it hit two birds with one stone. It made me not just admirable because I It made me not just admirable because I achieved an outcome and a dream that a achieved an outcome and a dream that a lot of people want, but it also made me lot of people want, but it also made me likable because I showed the likable because I showed the relationship. The one thing I'll say as relationship. The one thing I'll say as well that went into the video was that well that went into the video was that it was just extremely authentic. I it was just extremely authentic. I wasn't in the mode of like trying to

wasn't in the mode of like trying to film a reel. To give you guys context film a reel. To give you guys context like back in March, I think this was like back in March, I think this was 2024 2024 Prime trip and yeah, I think this is in Prime trip and yeah, I think this is in 2020 2020 2024 when I was 19 years old, I hit my 2024 when I was 19 years old, I hit my first 100k in March. I filmed the entire first 100k in March. I filmed the entire month because I knew it was going to be month because I knew it was going to be a big month and so part of that, you a big month and so part of that, you know, entire vlog was a specific segment know, entire vlog was a specific segment of me calling my mom which ended up of me calling my mom which ended up being a reel that popped off. If you

being a reel that popped off. If you want to build a personal brand that want to build a personal brand that actually feels authentic, then you have actually feels authentic, then you have to get out of the frame of mind of like to get out of the frame of mind of like trying to film everything for short form trying to film everything for short form and just get in the habit of just and just get in the habit of just filming it for you. I got into vlogs filming it for you. I got into vlogs because I want to create content that I because I want to create content that I can look back on when I'm 30, 40, 50 can look back on when I'm 30, 40, 50 that I can watch with my kids and be that I can watch with my kids and be like, "Yeah, you know, your your dad did like, "Yeah, you know, your your dad did that when he was [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] 19." You know, that when he was [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] 19." You know, that's what I want to do. And so I'm

that's what I want to do. And so I'm creating content with a passion and you creating content with a passion and you can't like that video wasn't forced at can't like that video wasn't forced at all because I was capturing a very all because I was capturing a very wholesome moment and I was capturing the wholesome moment and I was capturing the entire month. It felt very genuine entire month. It felt very genuine because it was. And so the key point I'm because it was. And so the key point I'm trying to bring across is that Instagram trying to bring across is that Instagram shouldn't feel like a performance or shouldn't feel like a performance or some type of scripted reel. Not some type of scripted reel. Not everything should be scripted. The everything should be scripted. The camera should capture moments that are camera should capture moments that are already happening and that's how you get

already happening and that's how you get the most authentic version of yourself. the most authentic version of yourself. So how can you replicate a video like So how can you replicate a video like this? It's very very simple. So this is this? It's very very simple. So this is what I call an I made it moment and you what I call an I made it moment and you want to pin this to the top of your want to pin this to the top of your profile and it's basically just profile and it's basically just showcasing a desired outcome that showcasing a desired outcome that everybody wants to achieve and again everybody wants to achieve and again it's not only your ICP but your dream it's not only your ICP but your dream follower. And this allows you to attract follower. And this allows you to attract a white time and so as you can see a white time and so as you can see uh me, Josh Schang, Jake Shields

uh me, Josh Schang, Jake Shields absolutely crushed it after like, "Damn, absolutely crushed it after like, "Damn, we we 1 mil, 1 mil, what?" Josh got to catch 1 mil, 1 mil, what?" Josh got to catch up a bit, but that's sick, you know? And up a bit, but that's sick, you know? And so these videos won't be a scripted and so these videos won't be a scripted and so it's really just capturing the of and so it's really just capturing the of and the authentic moments. The first step is the authentic moments. The first step is actually pinpointing a desired outcome actually pinpointing a desired outcome that your ICP and your dream follower that your ICP and your dream follower actually wants. This could be buying a actually wants. This could be buying a dream car, telling your mom how much you dream car, telling your mom how much you made in a month, buying a big gift for a

made in a month, buying a big gift for a loved one, whatever the case may be. And loved one, whatever the case may be. And then once you have that, you can get then once you have that, you can get into documentation. Now, the key part into documentation. Now, the key part here is that we want to actually make here is that we want to actually make make it authentic and we don't want to make it authentic and we don't want to just capture it because we want to post just capture it because we want to post it as a reel. Like that's very very it as a reel. Like that's very very important. I don't want you guys to important. I don't want you guys to artificially manufacture a video just artificially manufacture a video just for it to go like go viral, you know? for it to go like go viral, you know? Now, very important to note, do not make Now, very important to note, do not make your loved ones feel awkward because you

your loved ones feel awkward because you want to film the video. Make them feel want to film the video. Make them feel natural, get them natural, get them If they're not used to the camera, then If they're not used to the camera, then I'd actually argue that it's better to I'd actually argue that it's better to film on the phone because people are film on the phone because people are more used to the phone than anything. more used to the phone than anything. It's the moment that you just really It's the moment that you just really want to be in and just fully soak in. want to be in and just fully soak in. The post-production is extremely The post-production is extremely important for a video like this as well. important for a video like this as well. This is the make or break for the video This is the make or break for the video since it's less scripted that you want

since it's less scripted that you want to take more of a raw approach and make to take more of a raw approach and make sure that the message is not lost within sure that the message is not lost within the video. the video. So, these are the two main aspects of So, these are the two main aspects of the post-production that you actually the post-production that you actually need to consider, the clipping and the need to consider, the clipping and the hook. Now, the clipping is focus on hook. Now, the clipping is focus on removing the least engaging parts and removing the least engaging parts and the actual fluff to make sure that the the actual fluff to make sure that the retention of the video actually does retention of the video actually does well. well. And so, this is add to the main message

And so, this is add to the main message of the video and if I remove this, will of the video and if I remove this, will it impact the video? If the answer to it impact the video? If the answer to both of those questions is no, then you both of those questions is no, then you remove that part of the clip because it remove that part of the clip because it is fluff. And so, we have an entire SOP is fluff. And so, we have an entire SOP on it uh for our for our clients and our on it uh for our for our clients and our editors. And then the hook, this is the editors. And then the hook, this is the one key factor that separates the best one key factor that separates the best performing videos. I want you to performing videos. I want you to essentially make sure that you have essentially make sure that you have three hooks, a title hook, visual hook, three hooks, a title hook, visual hook, and a verbal hook. And so, the title

and a verbal hook. And so, the title hook literally just shows like it sparks hook literally just shows like it sparks curiosity. Before I'm even speaking, if curiosity. Before I'm even speaking, if we didn't have a title hook, that video we didn't have a title hook, that video would not have performed. The visual would not have performed. The visual hook was me literally on a call with her hook was me literally on a call with her and then the verbal hook was literally and then the verbal hook was literally me about to tell her something. And so, me about to tell her something. And so, with a combination of all three, that with a combination of all three, that video is guaranteed to perform. If we video is guaranteed to perform. If we didn't have one of the three, let's say didn't have one of the three, let's say we didn't have the title, people would we didn't have the title, people would be confused with what video it was and

be confused with what video it was and they would have scrolled off. So, you they would have scrolled off. So, you need all three. Make sure that you're need all three. Make sure that you're giving your editor a bunch of reference giving your editor a bunch of reference videos, all of this, and making sure videos, all of this, and making sure that you're editing this as best as you that you're editing this as best as you possibly can, especially since it's a possibly can, especially since it's a special moment that you can look back special moment that you can look back on. Second video, let's get into it. This one was a fun one. Here's how I spent my one was a fun one. Here's how I spent my $311,000 paycheck last month. First $311,000 paycheck last month. First things first, I spent $50,000 on index things first, I spent $50,000 on index funds. I spent $21,000 on the remaining

funds. I spent $21,000 on the remaining 3 months of this apartment lease. I 3 months of this apartment lease. I spent a total of 35K on mentorships and spent a total of 35K on mentorships and coaching. I gave my mom and family coaching. I gave my mom and family $24,000. All right, so this is a video $24,000. All right, so this is a video that I actually took inspiration from that I actually took inspiration from from another creator. I remember when I from another creator. I remember when I first watched the video that he posted, first watched the video that he posted, I was literally thinking to myself like, I was literally thinking to myself like, "What the fuck?" Like that was my first "What the fuck?" Like that was my first initial reaction. It made me feel a very initial reaction. It made me feel a very strong emotion towards the video because strong emotion towards the video because I was a bit, you know, confused on why

I was a bit, you know, confused on why he would spend his money this way. he would spend his money this way. That's his lifestyle, that's his thing, That's his lifestyle, that's his thing, but I felt an emotion and usually when I but I felt an emotion and usually when I feel emotions to something, that's a feel emotions to something, that's a really strong idea and so I saved it to really strong idea and so I saved it to my swipe file. Every time he would rip a my swipe file. Every time he would rip a video, it'd be a 10x outlier, so I knew video, it'd be a 10x outlier, so I knew I had to do it. I knew I could create I had to do it. I knew I could create some type of twist on it to make it my some type of twist on it to make it my own and make it feel different. This own and make it feel different. This video was doing very, very well and it's video was doing very, very well and it's made him a lot of money. So now let's

made him a lot of money. So now let's get into why it actually works. In get into why it actually works. In literally the last video I was breaking literally the last video I was breaking down the visual verbal hook and down the visual verbal hook and everything. The visual hook is extremely everything. The visual hook is extremely strong because you're wondering like, strong because you're wondering like, "Whoa, this guy's in a high-rise?" "Whoa, this guy's in a high-rise?" Big number on the screen, curiosity Big number on the screen, curiosity loop, right? And then the verbal hook is loop, right? And then the verbal hook is even stronger. Here's how I spend my even stronger. Here's how I spend my 311K paycheck. The combination of the 311K paycheck. The combination of the visual hook and the verbal hook made the visual hook and the verbal hook made the video and the fact that it was hard to

video and the fact that it was hard to replicate was the cherry on top. Not a replicate was the cherry on top. Not a lot of people can say that they have lot of people can say that they have this paycheck. Not a lot of people could this paycheck. Not a lot of people could say that or film in a high-rise. Not a say that or film in a high-rise. Not a lot of people could have that big number lot of people could have that big number as the visual hook and so everything as the visual hook and so everything tied together just made it a very, very tied together just made it a very, very perfect strong opening hook. And the perfect strong opening hook. And the goal of these hooks is to create a goal of these hooks is to create a massive open loop. And this is basically massive open loop. And this is basically just get getting you to think about just get getting you to think about questions, getting you to think about

questions, getting you to think about things in general. So I'm breaking down things in general. So I'm breaking down my paycheck and as you're doing that, my paycheck and as you're doing that, you're wondering, "What does this guy you're wondering, "What does this guy do? do? What is he selling? Like is he lying? What is he selling? Like is he lying? What does he spend his money on? And so What does he spend his money on? And so these are all questions that you're these are all questions that you're coming up and really, really good visual coming up and really, really good visual hooks and verbal hooks don't just create hooks and verbal hooks don't just create questions on what the video is about, questions on what the video is about, they create questions on things that are they create questions on things that are that I'm not even talking about in the

that I'm not even talking about in the video. And so it is this video is not video. And so it is this video is not about what I do, but it creates that about what I do, but it creates that question. This video is not about what question. This video is not about what I'm selling, but it creates that I'm selling, but it creates that question. And even like question. And even like how old is this guy is another one, how old is this guy is another one, right? right? And so that creates another question. So And so that creates another question. So because there's so many open loops, because there's so many open loops, that's why the video performed well. that's why the video performed well. Again, this is the top of funnel that Again, this is the top of funnel that would make people curious regardless of

would make people curious regardless of whether or not they were ICP and if they whether or not they were ICP and if they were even a dream follower. So because were even a dream follower. So because of all of these open loops, that's why of all of these open loops, that's why the video worked well, but again, you the video worked well, but again, you don't just want to copy different don't just want to copy different creators and just call it a day. And so creators and just call it a day. And so his video was very fundamentally his video was very fundamentally different because he showed um him different because he showed um him buying a bunch of cars, his, you know, buying a bunch of cars, his, you know, like apartment rent, which was really, like apartment rent, which was really, really expensive. He showed really expensive. He showed um like his lifestyle, right? Like how

um like his lifestyle, right? Like how much he spent on his birthdays and much he spent on his birthdays and everything. And again, there's nothing everything. And again, there's nothing wrong with that. Like I'm sure at a wrong with that. Like I'm sure at a certain point I'm going to be like I'm certain point I'm going to be like I'm going to be spending money on all of going to be spending money on all of this as well, but I took that and I made this as well, but I took that and I made it my own. it my own. And so how did I make it my own? I And so how did I make it my own? I essentially asked myself, why did my essentially asked myself, why did my clients choose me over every single one clients choose me over every single one of my other competitors? And I distill of my other competitors? And I distill that messaging. And I found out that

that messaging. And I found out that people like me because I wasn't that people like me because I wasn't that materialistic. I think very long-term materialistic. I think very long-term and so I invested a lot of money. I'm, and so I invested a lot of money. I'm, you know, consistent and disciplined. you know, consistent and disciplined. And I basically like this is the And I basically like this is the opposite of everything over here. Like opposite of everything over here. Like this was not me. And so I didn't want to this was not me. And so I didn't want to create the same video and act like I'm create the same video and act like I'm spending a lot. Let me just completely spending a lot. Let me just completely flip the narrative and literally show flip the narrative and literally show how little I spent on lifestyle and how how little I spent on lifestyle and how much I spend on growing my wealth and

much I spend on growing my wealth and growing my company. And so the key with growing my company. And so the key with this video was I took a format that this video was I took a format that worked, I understood how I could worked, I understood how I could actually have that twist on it, and I actually have that twist on it, and I made it different. And so I found the made it different. And so I found the format that was already proven that has format that was already proven that has already gone viral, and I just made it already gone viral, and I just made it my own and made it different based on my own and made it different based on why my clients chose me, and that's why why my clients chose me, and that's why the video actually performed extremely the video actually performed extremely well. The key thing here is that you well. The key thing here is that you want to be

want to be very, very specific. Now, what do I mean very, very specific. Now, what do I mean by this? I don't want you to just by this? I don't want you to just generically say what other people are generically say what other people are doing. If you look at the top personal doing. If you look at the top personal brands, like they do the opposite. And brands, like they do the opposite. And so if everyone's going to the left, like so if everyone's going to the left, like ask yourself, how can you go to the ask yourself, how can you go to the right? How can you just be different? right? How can you just be different? How can you literally do this? And so How can you literally do this? And so with my marketing, I knew that everyone with my marketing, I knew that everyone in my industry that was making the in my industry that was making the amount of money that I made was selling

amount of money that I made was selling with a lifestyle. They were showing the with a lifestyle. They were showing the cars that they were buying. They were cars that they were buying. They were showing the expensive things that they showing the expensive things that they were buying. Again, there's nothing were buying. Again, there's nothing wrong with that. I I'm not sitting here wrong with that. I I'm not sitting here and saying like, oh, this is how you and saying like, oh, this is how you should spend your money. I'm just should spend your money. I'm just showing you like, what is my stance? And showing you like, what is my stance? And so I took a very, very strong approach, so I took a very, very strong approach, and while everyone was doing this over and while everyone was doing this over here and buying all the stuff and here and buying all the stuff and showing all the lifestyle, I took a very

showing all the lifestyle, I took a very strong stance, and I was over here. I strong stance, and I was over here. I stood out in a mark- in a industry where stood out in a mark- in a industry where everybody looked the same, which is why everybody looked the same, which is why those people actually resonated with me those people actually resonated with me as well. And so the best piece of advice as well. And so the best piece of advice I can give you is don't be afraid of I can give you is don't be afraid of people judging you when you're posting people judging you when you're posting content. You can't please everybody. So content. You can't please everybody. So just please yourself. Post what makes just please yourself. Post what makes you feel good. Post the message that you you feel good. Post the message that you want to actually share. Post the videos want to actually share. Post the videos that you actually feel like posting,

that you actually feel like posting, because ultimately it's your brand, and because ultimately it's your brand, and you get to decide what you want to do you get to decide what you want to do with it. Stop optimizing for the views with it. Stop optimizing for the views and the sales and all of that. Just find and the sales and all of that. Just find what makes you different. And if you what makes you different. And if you don't know what that is, ask the people don't know what that is, ask the people around you what they like about you, around you what they like about you, what they don't like about you, and what they don't like about you, and emphasize those and be more dramatic in emphasize those and be more dramatic in the content. If you paid attention to the content. If you paid attention to like what I was actually talking about like what I was actually talking about in the reel, I was talking about my

in the reel, I was talking about my index funds. Right? I was talking about index funds. Right? I was talking about giving my family money. It's actually giving my family money. It's actually funny that, you know, I'm watching that funny that, you know, I'm watching that real. I literally just gave family money real. I literally just gave family money again today. Um which was really, really again today. Um which was really, really nice. And it makes me just feel good, nice. And it makes me just feel good, right? And so I want to talk about that. right? And so I want to talk about that. I want to show people a different moral I want to show people a different moral compass with money. And all these compass with money. And all these different things as opposed to things different things as opposed to things that people are spending money on, that people are spending money on, which made the video actually different,

which made the video actually different, but not just different to get views, but but not just different to get views, but to make people like me. And again, if we to make people like me. And again, if we go back to what the overall goal was, go back to what the overall goal was, it's the admirability, but then also the it's the admirability, but then also the likeability. And so think back to the likeability. And so think back to the start of the video, this top of funnel start of the video, this top of funnel video hit extremely well on the video hit extremely well on the admirability because who doesn't want to admirability because who doesn't want to have, you know, a lot of money to spend, have, you know, a lot of money to spend, but then also likeability because it but then also likeability because it shows why you're different. shows why you're different. And in order to be different, you have

And in order to be different, you have to be specific and be judged. to be specific and be judged. There are a lot of comments on that real There are a lot of comments on that real where like, "Bro, you're such a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] where like, "Bro, you're such a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] cheapskate. You're so Chinese." I'm cheapskate. You're so Chinese." I'm completely fine with that. I'm Chinese. completely fine with that. I'm Chinese. I'm literally, you know, I'm as Chinese I'm literally, you know, I'm as Chinese as they come. I'm I'm all completely as they come. I'm I'm all completely okay with that. I'm not trying to please okay with that. I'm not trying to please everybody. I'm just trying to please everybody. I'm just trying to please myself, the people around me, make more myself, the people around me, make more money, do my thing. I I don't care. And money, do my thing. I I don't care. And so a lot of content is literally

so a lot of content is literally detaching yourself from other people's detaching yourself from other people's opinions of you, just doing whatever the opinions of you, just doing whatever the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you feel like. [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you feel like. It's It's lol. Okay. Now, how can you replicate a lol. Okay. Now, how can you replicate a video like this? The first step is to video like this? The first step is to find out what makes you different, find out what makes you different, right? So in a world where, you know, right? So in a world where, you know, basically everybody looks the same, basically everybody looks the same, um there are specific reasons why people um there are specific reasons why people chose you over everybody else or why chose you over everybody else or why your family likes you over everybody

your family likes you over everybody else, hopefully. else, hopefully. And you just want to find that out. And And you just want to find that out. And so the best way that I can literally so the best way that I can literally give you is to hop on one-on-one client give you is to hop on one-on-one client calls. calls. But not just any client calls, But not just any client calls, your favorite your favorite clients. A your favorite your favorite clients. A lot of clients will just say, "Oh, you lot of clients will just say, "Oh, you know, I I bought because I really know, I I bought because I really believe that you could take me to this believe that you could take me to this desired outcome that I want to." But desired outcome that I want to." But your favorite clients most likely chose

your favorite clients most likely chose you because they resonated with you on a you because they resonated with you on a personal personal level. level. So, I would literally book five to 10 So, I would literally book five to 10 one-on-one calls with your favorite one-on-one calls with your favorite clients and ask them questions like, clients and ask them questions like, "Why did you choose me instead of the "Why did you choose me instead of the hundreds of other competitors? What made hundreds of other competitors? What made me stand out? Why did this actually Why me stand out? Why did this actually Why was this important for you?" Right? You was this important for you?" Right? You want to get to the root cause. So, if want to get to the root cause. So, if someone says that, "Hey, um I chose you

someone says that, "Hey, um I chose you because you were like in in my because you were like in in my situation, you're not materialistic." situation, you're not materialistic." Like, "Okay, like well, why is that Like, "Okay, like well, why is that important to you?" "Because I don't important to you?" "Because I don't really resonate with making money for really resonate with making money for the materialistic." "Okay, like why?" the materialistic." "Okay, like why?" "Because I want to make money for my "Because I want to make money for my family and actually take care of the family and actually take care of the people around me." "Okay, why?" "Because people around me." "Okay, why?" "Because they put me in a situation where I'm in they put me in a situation where I'm in today. My parents were immigrants and today. My parents were immigrants and they moved and they sacrificed

they moved and they sacrificed everything to put me in a position to everything to put me in a position to succeed." "Okay, why?" And so, you get succeed." "Okay, why?" And so, you get to the real why. Like, they're not to the real why. Like, they're not materialistic, but their real why is the materialistic, but their real why is the fact that they want to take care of fact that they want to take care of their family more than anything. And so, their family more than anything. And so, now you have different content ideas now you have different content ideas that you can go off of. The key is to that you can go off of. The key is to dig a layer deeper and ask why until you dig a layer deeper and ask why until you can't find a different answer because can't find a different answer because every single time you ask that question, every single time you ask that question, you get different responses which will

you get different responses which will lead to different ideas. We have a bunch lead to different ideas. We have a bunch of different ways that we do this. So, of different ways that we do this. So, we also have like literally a client we also have like literally a client buyer mirror form where we ask a bunch buyer mirror form where we ask a bunch of questions on what makes us different of questions on what makes us different and we get all of that data, we put in a and we get all of that data, we put in a AI and it gives us a bunch of different AI and it gives us a bunch of different ideas. And then also just like ideas. And then also just like check-ins. You can ask your family check-ins. You can ask your family members what makes you different. Like, members what makes you different. Like, just people that you really like and just people that you really like and resonate with.

resonate with. Because again, we don't just want to Because again, we don't just want to attract any client. We want to attract attract any client. We want to attract people that we generally enjoy working people that we generally enjoy working with. And then once you do that, I want with. And then once you do that, I want you to find a topic that is difficult you to find a topic that is difficult for the average person to replicate for the average person to replicate because now you're creating a moat. because now you're creating a moat. Like, well, why did that video perform Like, well, why did that video perform so well? It's because literally if you so well? It's because literally if you wanted to create that video, but you wanted to create that video, but you were the average person, were the average person, like it's just hard. Like, it it it

like it's just hard. Like, it it it wouldn't hit the same because it wouldn't hit the same because it wouldn't be that big of an open loop. wouldn't be that big of an open loop. And so, So what is hard to replicate, And so, So what is hard to replicate, whether it's spending a big paycheck, whether it's spending a big paycheck, investing a lot of money, buying investing a lot of money, buying expensive membership, whatever the case expensive membership, whatever the case may be, and talk about it, right? And so may be, and talk about it, right? And so Jake did this perfectly over here, one Jake did this perfectly over here, one of our clients, Absolute G. of our clients, Absolute G. Um I think he's basically on track for a Um I think he's basically on track for a six-figure month this month, which is six-figure month this month, which is super sickest. He added an extra 70K

super sickest. He added an extra 70K with organic content. with organic content. &gt;&gt; Is it a good investment to buy a nice &gt;&gt; Is it a good investment to buy a nice car at a young age? Here's what I'm car at a young age? Here's what I'm going to tell you after buying three going to tell you after buying three cars. Everyone has a mixed opinion on cars. Everyone has a mixed opinion on it, but this is what I have to say. it, but this is what I have to say. Three months after launch Three months after launch &gt;&gt; So again, the op the the hook was &gt;&gt; So again, the op the the hook was perfect in a way where it's like he said perfect in a way where it's like he said something that not a lot of people could something that not a lot of people could say, say, and now he's getting into his opinion,

and now he's getting into his opinion, right? right? &gt;&gt; my business, I bought a 2024 Mustang &gt;&gt; my business, I bought a 2024 Mustang GT500, brand new. Everyone told me not GT500, brand new. Everyone told me not to get it. I did it anyway. Then I had to get it. I did it anyway. Then I had it for three months, scaled my business, it for three months, scaled my business, and I bought a C8 Corvette. Same thing. and I bought a C8 Corvette. Same thing. Everyone told me not to do it. They're Everyone told me not to do it. They're like, "You're crazy. You just bought like, "You're crazy. You just bought this car. You had it for three months." this car. You had it for three months." Got the car anyway. I got it anyway. You Got the car anyway. I got it anyway. You know why? Because I [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] earned it, know why? Because I [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] earned it, and I wanted another car. So I got

and I wanted another car. So I got [music] it, because I can. And here's [music] it, because I can. And here's what I'm going to tell you. When you're what I'm going to tell you. When you're young, I I think that's the best time to young, I I think that's the best time to get a nice car, because one, it's not get a nice car, because one, it's not only the most impressive time to drive a only the most impressive time to drive a nice car, nice car, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; but two, your priorities are completely &gt;&gt; but two, your priorities are completely different. It It's so different when you different. It It's so different when you turn 30, and, you know, you're not turn 30, and, you know, you're not worried about a car. You're worried worried about a car. You're worried about getting a house, starting a

about getting a house, starting a family, all this stuff, so much more family, all this stuff, so much more responsibility. responsibility. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; But here's another thing. This car will &gt;&gt; But here's another thing. This car will constantly remind you of your hard work. constantly remind you of your hard work. All the sacrifices, everything you put All the sacrifices, everything you put into building what you have now, to even into building what you have now, to even be able to afford this car at this kind be able to afford this car at this kind of age, it reminds you who you are. I of age, it reminds you who you are. I could be having the worst day ever. I could be having the worst day ever. I could be having the worst day, worst could be having the worst day, worst week, worst month, whatever, so much

week, worst month, whatever, so much stress, so much problems going on, so stress, so much problems going on, so much anxiety, but you know what? At the much anxiety, but you know what? At the end of the day, I walk downstairs, I get end of the day, I walk downstairs, I get in this car, I get to press the start in this car, I get to press the start button, I hear the engine turn on. button, I hear the engine turn on. Instantly, I'm reminded of who the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Instantly, I'm reminded of who the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I am, I am, and how I got [music] here. Because 2 and how I got [music] here. Because 2 years ago I didn't have [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] 2 years years ago I didn't have [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] 2 years ago I had absolutely nothing, was broke ago I had absolutely nothing, was broke as [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] delivering pizza and I was as [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] delivering pizza and I was considered a college dropout. I was

considered a college dropout. I was considered a failure considered a failure &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; in life and now I'm sitting in a car &gt;&gt; in life and now I'm sitting in a car that people can't even afford let alone that people can't even afford let alone at a young age. I'm not saying that to at a young age. I'm not saying that to flex but you're going to [music] feel a flex but you're going to [music] feel a certain way about yourself. And that's certain way about yourself. And that's the thing, if you earned it and you did the thing, if you earned it and you did it, enjoy the fruits of your labor it, enjoy the fruits of your labor because you deserve it. You don't have because you deserve it. You don't have to prove that to anyone. [music] to prove that to anyone. [music] Is it a good investment?

Is it a good investment? &gt;&gt; [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] watching that real makes me want &gt;&gt; [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] watching that real makes me want to buy a car. God damn. to buy a car. God damn. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; But that's the perfect example of &gt;&gt; But that's the perfect example of leaning into an extreme, you know? Like leaning into an extreme, you know? Like you find an open loop, you you talk you find an open loop, you you talk about something that not a lot of people about something that not a lot of people can talk about and then you just share can talk about and then you just share why you're different. And so this is the why you're different. And so this is the like opposite of basically what I'm like opposite of basically what I'm going at and that's the that's the going at and that's the that's the beautiful part. Like I literally tell

beautiful part. Like I literally tell all my clients lean into what makes you all my clients lean into what makes you different and even if it's like even if different and even if it's like even if if you're if you love cars, man, talk if you're if you love cars, man, talk about that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Talk about that and you about that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Talk about that and you can tell how passionate he was in the can tell how passionate he was in the video and that's why it performed. That video and that's why it performed. That that's why the video performed. He got that's why the video performed. He got hundreds and thousands of views. It made hundreds and thousands of views. It made him admirable and likable at the same him admirable and likable at the same time. So time. So it's not one or this. Like it's whatever it's not one or this. Like it's whatever you feel is best. The same way that and

you feel is best. The same way that and the same message that he's preaching in the same message that he's preaching in this video. So that was the perfect this video. So that was the perfect example of a spin-off on this. example of a spin-off on this. Um another one is Emma. She invested in Um another one is Emma. She invested in us and this was her basically reaction us and this was her basically reaction video. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; That's Emma. Uh again, I I absolutely &gt;&gt; That's Emma. Uh again, I I absolutely love this video when I saw it for the love this video when I saw it for the first time. I literally commented first time. I literally commented excited to get to work and then she said excited to get to work and then she said road to 100k. I saw this today as I was road to 100k. I saw this today as I was actually making the script for the video

actually making the script for the video and I was like looking back at this and I was like looking back at this comment and I was so so close to 100k. comment and I was so so close to 100k. Now she crossed and she I believe she's Now she crossed and she I believe she's on track for 150 this month. Purely on track for 150 this month. Purely organic content. Crushing it, right? And organic content. Crushing it, right? And she came at 30, so she added an extra she came at 30, so she added an extra 120k with organic content to her top 120k with organic content to her top line revenue. And this is the perfect line revenue. And this is the perfect example of, again, finding something example of, again, finding something that not a lot of people can replicate, that not a lot of people can replicate, showing why you did it, showing what showing why you did it, showing what makes you different, and then leaning

makes you different, and then leaning into it to an extreme, and making people into it to an extreme, and making people feel like they want to resonate with you feel like they want to resonate with you because you stand out from the crowd. because you stand out from the crowd. I'm going to show you another example so I'm going to show you another example so you guys can really get this idea and you guys can really get this idea and really bring this point home. really bring this point home. &gt;&gt; I'm dropping another quarter million &gt;&gt; I'm dropping another quarter million dollars in dollars in to the S&amp;P 500. I'm trying to do this to the S&amp;P 500. I'm trying to do this basically every single month. And let me basically every single month. And let me tell you something that nobody on social tell you something that nobody on social media actually will tell you.

media actually will tell you. &gt;&gt; So, again, big thing that not a lot of &gt;&gt; So, again, big thing that not a lot of people can replicate, and then I say, people can replicate, and then I say, "I'm going to tell you something that "I'm going to tell you something that nobody on social media will tell you." nobody on social media will tell you." Another open loop. And so, if you pay Another open loop. And so, if you pay attention, I actually showed quarter attention, I actually showed quarter mill, I showed my bank statement. So, mill, I showed my bank statement. So, visual, verbal, text, everything was visual, verbal, text, everything was there. there. &gt;&gt; Nobody gives a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about the car that &gt;&gt; Nobody gives a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about the car that you have, the watch that you have, the you have, the watch that you have, the lifestyle that you have except for

lifestyle that you have except for yourself and the people below you. When yourself and the people below you. When I understood that, I stopped trying to I understood that, I stopped trying to idolize them. idolize them. &gt;&gt; And then I go into what makes me &gt;&gt; And then I go into what makes me different, which is the fact that I'm different, which is the fact that I'm not materialistic and I'm just investing not materialistic and I'm just investing in my future. Again, in my future. Again, you can see the stark contrast, but it's you can see the stark contrast, but it's just what makes you different, why are just what makes you different, why are your clients buying into you, and then your clients buying into you, and then finding formats to show it. And so, I finding formats to show it. And so, I essentially took this video, repurposed

essentially took this video, repurposed and repackaged it into a more, you know, and repackaged it into a more, you know, nonchalant version of me filming, just nonchalant version of me filming, just casually dropping a quarter mill uh into casually dropping a quarter mill uh into S&amp;P 500, and then just talking about S&amp;P 500, and then just talking about what makes me different. what makes me different. This is one of the easiest formats to This is one of the easiest formats to run, especially if you guys are already run, especially if you guys are already qualified and you guys are already um at qualified and you guys are already um at a high level in business. This is one of a high level in business. This is one of the best videos you can rip if you're an the best videos you can rip if you're an expert in your industry. All right, so this is the last video we'll review. This is [music] more of a

we'll review. This is [music] more of a value talking head video about shifting value talking head video about shifting beliefs. So, let's get right into it. beliefs. So, let's get right into it. Posting content in 2026 is the exact Posting content in 2026 is the exact same as investing in Bitcoin in 2013. same as investing in Bitcoin in 2013. You will get rich for life if [music] You will get rich for life if [music] you do it the right way. I built a you do it the right way. I built a million dollar per year business by million dollar per year business by simply posting content, and this is the simply posting content, and this is the one [music] thing that no one will tell one [music] thing that no one will tell you. People will try to avoid building a you. People will try to avoid building a strong brand by running ads to grow strong brand by running ads to grow their business, [music] but what they

their business, [music] but what they fail to realize is the person that fail to realize is the person that prioritizes the brand and their organic prioritizes the brand and their organic marketing in the long run will always marketing in the long run will always win. Everybody is falling [music] to the win. Everybody is falling [music] to the short-term solution of ads and that is short-term solution of ads and that is the gap that is where you can dominate the gap that is where you can dominate and wipe your industry. So, how I came and wipe your industry. So, how I came about creating this video was actually about creating this video was actually very funny. Uh we were on track for a very funny. Uh we were on track for a record month and in the last 10 days of record month and in the last 10 days of the month, I think we closed two of 10, the month, I think we closed two of 10, which in our terms is super bad. I mean,

which in our terms is super bad. I mean, we were averaging like uh we were averaging like uh usually I believe in that month we were usually I believe in that month we were averaging like 70%. So, that was averaging like 70%. So, that was terrible for us. We went on a dry spell terrible for us. We went on a dry spell and the number one objection that we got and the number one objection that we got was was "I'm going to focus on paid ads. I'm "I'm going to focus on paid ads. I'm going to focus on organic later." Like going to focus on organic later." Like it pissed me off so bad because that it pissed me off so bad because that ideology doesn't make sense. It's not ideology doesn't make sense. It's not ads versus organic, it's both, right? ads versus organic, it's both, right? So, because of that happening, like we

So, because of that happening, like we didn't hit a record month, I was super didn't hit a record month, I was super pissed about it and I was like, "This pissed about it and I was like, "This objection doesn't make sense." So, I was objection doesn't make sense." So, I was just like I created like three reels, I just like I created like three reels, I created two YouTube videos solving this created two YouTube videos solving this objection and soon enough we basically objection and soon enough we basically we don't get that objection anymore and we don't get that objection anymore and it's because we intentionally remove all it's because we intentionally remove all of these objections by solving them in of these objections by solving them in the marketing uh so that they don't come the marketing uh so that they don't come up again. So, I have to say this, if you up again. So, I have to say this, if you get a specific objection on a sales

get a specific objection on a sales call, nine times out of 10 it's because call, nine times out of 10 it's because your content failed to do its job and your content failed to do its job and your content fai- failed to actually your content fai- failed to actually solve the objection, which is why your solve the objection, which is why your sales rep had to actually handle it. So, sales rep had to actually handle it. So, when it comes to middle funnel videos when it comes to middle funnel videos that you post on your brand, there's that you post on your brand, there's three questions that you want to ask three questions that you want to ask yourself. Number one is the limiting yourself. Number one is the limiting belief. Is this specific video breaking belief. Is this specific video breaking a limiting belief in my prospect's mind a limiting belief in my prospect's mind that will get them one step closer

that will get them one step closer to working with me. to working with me. That is all a middle funnel video does. That is all a middle funnel video does. The second thing is if the hook is broad The second thing is if the hook is broad enough. And so again, what are we trying enough. And so again, what are we trying to do? Even though it's a middle funnel to do? Even though it's a middle funnel video, we can target our ICP, but can we video, we can target our ICP, but can we do what we did in the Venn diagram and do what we did in the Venn diagram and attract our ICP and our dream follower attract our ICP and our dream follower at the same time? And then the third at the same time? And then the third question that we want to ask, is there a question that we want to ask, is there a clear message that I want to deliver to clear message that I want to deliver to basically remove the limiting belief and

basically remove the limiting belief and change the way that they think about a change the way that they think about a specific topic. These are the three specific topic. These are the three questions that you need to ask in order questions that you need to ask in order to make sure that the middle funnel to make sure that the middle funnel video is actually going to be a good video is actually going to be a good fit. And the best way that I can break fit. And the best way that I can break this down is actually breaking down the this down is actually breaking down the script with you guys, okay? The hook is script with you guys, okay? The hook is amazing. Content in 2026 is the exact amazing. Content in 2026 is the exact same as investing in Bitcoin in 2013. same as investing in Bitcoin in 2013. You will get rich for life if you do it You will get rich for life if you do it the right way.

the right way. Amazing open loop because not only this Amazing open loop because not only this is applied to my ICP, but it applies to is applied to my ICP, but it applies to the general public and my dream follower the general public and my dream follower because everyone knows about Bitcoin and because everyone knows about Bitcoin and that's a universal term. Everyone knows that's a universal term. Everyone knows that if you invested earlier, you'd make that if you invested earlier, you'd make more money. And I basically tied my more money. And I basically tied my mechanism of content to an investment mechanism of content to an investment term that basically everybody knew term that basically everybody knew about. And so, even if you're not into about. And so, even if you're not into content right now, you would still watch content right now, you would still watch for at least 5 seconds because you're

for at least 5 seconds because you're like, "Oh, like what is this? How can I like, "Oh, like what is this? How can I get rich for life if I do it the right get rich for life if I do it the right way? What is the right way?" And so, way? What is the right way?" And so, what do good open loops do? They ask you what do good open loops do? They ask you a lot of questions and build curiosity a lot of questions and build curiosity around what you're going to talk about. around what you're going to talk about. And then immediately I go into And then immediately I go into credibility. I built a $3 million per credibility. I built a $3 million per year business by simply posting content year business by simply posting content and this is the one thing that no one and this is the one thing that no one will tell you. Again, I'm not giving the will tell you. Again, I'm not giving the value straight away. I'm not giving them

value straight away. I'm not giving them the information the step-by-step the information the step-by-step straight away. I'm kind of dragging it straight away. I'm kind of dragging it out a bit because no one would really out a bit because no one would really listen to me if I only if I just gave listen to me if I only if I just gave the value straight away because they're the value straight away because they're like, "Who are you to tell me this?" And like, "Who are you to tell me this?" And so, I'm essentially establishing my so, I'm essentially establishing my authority and credibility by saying that authority and credibility by saying that I built a $3 million business. And then I built a $3 million business. And then I call them out. Now it's going a bit I call them out. Now it's going a bit more niche. And so, people will try to more niche. And so, people will try to avoid building a strong brand by running

avoid building a strong brand by running ads to grow their business, but what ads to grow their business, but what they fail to realize is that the person they fail to realize is that the person that prioritizes their brand in their that prioritizes their brand in their organic marketing in the long run will organic marketing in the long run will always win. So, keep in mind, I'm using always win. So, keep in mind, I'm using niche keywords now that are only niche keywords now that are only applicable to our industry that our ICP applicable to our industry that our ICP really resonate with. And so, with this, really resonate with. And so, with this, I essentially wanted my dream follower I essentially wanted my dream follower and the general public to keep kind of and the general public to keep kind of like to keep watching. And the moment like to keep watching. And the moment that this that this line pops up,

that this that this line pops up, they're probably gone. But guess who I they're probably gone. But guess who I actually want to care about? I want to actually want to care about? I want to care about my ICP. And so, now I don't care about my ICP. And so, now I don't care about my dream follower at all in care about my dream follower at all in the general public. I literally just the general public. I literally just want to talk to the ICP completely. And want to talk to the ICP completely. And so, I'm saying key niche words, all of so, I'm saying key niche words, all of that. The people that make the most that. The people that make the most money, they don't run the best ads. Um money, they don't run the best ads. Um they have the strongest personal brands. they have the strongest personal brands. And when they eventually do run ads, And when they eventually do run ads, they can outcompete everybody because

they can outcompete everybody because their brand is their competitive their brand is their competitive advantage. I'm using very, very niche advantage. I'm using very, very niche terms. And I'm using analogies that are terms. And I'm using analogies that are easy to understand because guess what? easy to understand because guess what? We can assume that our Hermozis is We can assume that our Hermozis is running way cheaper ads than your Joe running way cheaper ads than your Joe Schmo over here that that has four Schmo over here that that has four followers and relies on paid ads followers and relies on paid ads completely. If you run ads, you know completely. If you run ads, you know this that if your organic brand is this that if your organic brand is bigger, your ads will always be cheaper bigger, your ads will always be cheaper because of familiarity bias.

because of familiarity bias. And so, I'm talking about all this. I'm And so, I'm talking about all this. I'm stating the obvious. They acquire stating the obvious. They acquire cheaper leads and scale faster because cheaper leads and scale faster because of the trust they build over time. of the trust they build over time. Again, that's, you know, just Again, that's, you know, just essentially just shifting their beliefs. essentially just shifting their beliefs. Everyone is falling to the short-term Everyone is falling to the short-term solution of ads, and that is the gap, solution of ads, and that is the gap, and that is where you can dominate and and that is where you can dominate and wipe your industry. So, what am I doing? wipe your industry. So, what am I doing? I'm essentially positioning the people I'm essentially positioning the people that only run ads as these people that

that only run ads as these people that we don't want to be. We don't want to be we don't want to be. We don't want to be the people that just run ads. If you the people that just run ads. If you want to play to win, if you want to play want to play to win, if you want to play to dominate an industry, we can do this to dominate an industry, we can do this instead. We're going to run ads, right? instead. We're going to run ads, right? But, we're also going to build our But, we're also going to build our organic personal brand because that's organic personal brand because that's what's going to build that familiarity what's going to build that familiarity bias and that competitive advantage that bias and that competitive advantage that the regular ads guys can't do. So, we the regular ads guys can't do. So, we essentially sent this rule out to the essentially sent this rule out to the people running ads in our community, and

people running ads in our community, and it really hit well. And, you know, it really hit well. And, you know, literally, I could probably run this as literally, I could probably run this as an ad, and it would do well. Now, would an ad, and it would do well. Now, would I have this big of an open loop? I have this big of an open loop? Probably not, but you get the idea. This Probably not, but you get the idea. This is a great middle funnel video that did is a great middle funnel video that did a lot of things at once. And this is how a lot of things at once. And this is how you can script out middle funnel videos you can script out middle funnel videos that actually get views and change that actually get views and change limiting beliefs. Now, let's get into limiting beliefs. Now, let's get into how you can actually replicate this how you can actually replicate this video for yourself. I essentially want

video for yourself. I essentially want you to take all of your sales calls, you to take all of your sales calls, Fathom transcripts, put them all into Fathom transcripts, put them all into Claude. I think this is a Claude logo, Claude. I think this is a Claude logo, if I'm not mistaken. if I'm not mistaken. And then, basically get it to pinpoint And then, basically get it to pinpoint common objections. And essentially, what common objections. And essentially, what we What do we want to do with this, we What do we want to do with this, right? We want to come up with the most right? We want to come up with the most common limiting belief that again, if we common limiting belief that again, if we remove this limiting belief, this will remove this limiting belief, this will get them closer get them closer to becoming a client that we can help.

to becoming a client that we can help. And so in my specific video, And so in my specific video, the limiting belief was literally like the limiting belief was literally like content is number one acquisition content is number one acquisition channel. But even a layer deeper than channel. But even a layer deeper than that, that, if you want to simplify it, content is if you want to simplify it, content is better than ads. So basically, these are better than ads. So basically, these are like the core messaging that I wanted to like the core messaging that I wanted to do. Um I lean more into this, but then do. Um I lean more into this, but then another video you'll see, another video you'll see, I can lean more into this where it I can lean more into this where it content and ads is the best. And so like

content and ads is the best. And so like there's a specific core message that I there's a specific core message that I want to deliver. And again, if we go want to deliver. And again, if we go back to the first three questions that back to the first three questions that we asked about what makes a strong we asked about what makes a strong middle of funnel video, that's what it middle of funnel video, that's what it is. And then what I want you to do is I is. And then what I want you to do is I want you to create a swipe file of hooks want you to create a swipe file of hooks that appeal to your ICP and your dream that appeal to your ICP and your dream follower. follower. Um and you can ask your clients for what Um and you can ask your clients for what videos that they enjoy, what videos they videos that they enjoy, what videos they watch, all of that. And just build out a

watch, all of that. And just build out a swipe file, okay? And so you want to swipe file, okay? And so you want to create create a proven bank of hooks that are again, that are again, ICP and dream follower. These videos ICP and dream follower. These videos have already gone viral. And then you have already gone viral. And then you want to script out the video. Now the want to script out the video. Now the format when it comes to actually format when it comes to actually scripting out the video is actually scripting out the video is actually extremely intentional. So when you're extremely intentional. So when you're saying the first part, let's say, you saying the first part, let's say, you know, we have our script over here, the

know, we have our script over here, the first 20% of the entire hook, right? first 20% of the entire hook, right? This needs to appeal to 100% of your This needs to appeal to 100% of your dream follower dream follower and ICP. 100% 100%, okay? And then after and ICP. 100% 100%, okay? And then after the hook, you want to actually have a the hook, you want to actually have a huge drop off. You want to have around huge drop off. You want to have around 50% to your dream follower dropped off. 50% to your dream follower dropped off. And then you still maintain 100% ICP. And then you still maintain 100% ICP. And then over here it's like [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] And then over here it's like [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] like 20%, you know, they don't even care like 20%, you know, they don't even care if if they're even still here. Again, if if they're even still here. Again, your ICP still super engaged.

your ICP still super engaged. And then at the end of at the end of it And then at the end of at the end of it there should be 0% of your dream there should be 0% of your dream follower and 100% ICP. follower and 100% ICP. So, that's essentially the structure of So, that's essentially the structure of your script and how you follow it. If your script and how you follow it. If you look back at our script, I'm going you look back at our script, I'm going to put it right here, you'll see that to put it right here, you'll see that our dream follower was paying attention our dream follower was paying attention at the beginning, but once we basically at the beginning, but once we basically get their initial engagement boost and get their initial engagement boost and Instagram sees like, "Oh, the first 5 Instagram sees like, "Oh, the first 5 seconds is interesting. Let me push it

seconds is interesting. Let me push it out to more people." out to more people." It'll basically push out the video to It'll basically push out the video to the algorithm, which is why this video the algorithm, which is why this video generates 60k views, good amount of generates 60k views, good amount of impressions, even though it was a niche impressions, even though it was a niche video. And then once we use them, we can video. And then once we use them, we can we don't really care about the drop off. we don't really care about the drop off. We just want to cater to the ICP, which We just want to cater to the ICP, which is why you see that you want to use a is why you see that you want to use a niche keywords after the hook. niche keywords after the hook. And then you want to really shift the And then you want to really shift the limiting belief over here when there's

limiting belief over here when there's 20% of the dream follower still paying 20% of the dream follower still paying attention. All right? So, this is a attention. All right? So, this is a structure that you want to follow for structure that you want to follow for your middle of funnel content videos. your middle of funnel content videos. So, this video is actually a perfect So, this video is actually a perfect example of everything that I'm example of everything that I'm preaching, right? Uh in the beginning of preaching, right? Uh in the beginning of the video, it was actually a bit more the video, it was actually a bit more broad. Um we were showing a bit of broad. Um we were showing a bit of animations. I already know how it's animations. I already know how it's going to be edited because I've already going to be edited because I've already done my research. We're actually taking

done my research. We're actually taking inspiration from Vanity Fair and how inspiration from Vanity Fair and how actors react to movies. Instead of actor actors react to movies. Instead of actor reacting to a movie, it's me reacting to reacting to a movie, it's me reacting to my reels and breaking down breaking it my reels and breaking down breaking it down in educational way. So, this could down in educational way. So, this could have been a very very boring Loom style have been a very very boring Loom style video, which is a straight talking head, video, which is a straight talking head, but because it's packaged differently but because it's packaged differently you're you're probably still watching you're you're probably still watching because it's a different idea. You've because it's a different idea. You've never seen this before with regards never seen this before with regards you're getting so much value, right? And

you're getting so much value, right? And so, if a person maybe wanted to post on so, if a person maybe wanted to post on Instagram, even the title and thumbnail Instagram, even the title and thumbnail maybe maybe a bit broader as well. maybe maybe a bit broader as well. But as you go along the video, it's like But as you go along the video, it's like I'm covering so many niche keywords and I'm covering so many niche keywords and so many niche things in this video that so many niche things in this video that by now probably 0% of my dream follower by now probably 0% of my dream follower is still watching, but 100% of my ICP is is still watching, but 100% of my ICP is still watching. So, I'm literally still watching. So, I'm literally preaching this example live to you in preaching this example live to you in this video. If you want to break it down this video. If you want to break it down and do this exercise to this video

and do this exercise to this video yourself. This was a super fun video to yourself. This was a super fun video to film, and if you want to take your film, and if you want to take your personal brand to the next level so you personal brand to the next level so you can sign more clients for your business, can sign more clients for your business, feel free to click the first link in feel free to click the first link in bio, watch the video on how we can bio, watch the video on how we can actually help you, and see if it's a actually help you, and see if it's a good fit. With that being said, I hope good fit. With that being said, I hope you guys enjoyed the video, and I'll see you guys enjoyed the video, and I'll see you guys in the next one. Peace.
