So today I will teach you one single most important rule uh to apply when you're manually humanizing a written text to try to avoid a detection. This is just one thing that I always bear in mind when working on such manual edits and it just helps me decide what to change and how to change things. It really helps with the logic uh behind the process of manually humanizing a written text. To teach you that rule, I first have to teach you one quick rule about how AI writing works and then one quick rule for how AI detection works because it is the same rule and all these things overlap. And then I'll show you a real life example of how I apply this rule to text and how this changes the outcome of AI detector. So before we start, just a quick explanation. I do have all these videos in which I explain how to manually humanize a written text and they are still very much relevant and applicable and I do strongly encourage that you watch them. So in these videos I cover so many different rules and so many different practices such as changing the sentence length or looking out for triplet phrasing and trying to reduce dramat dramatization and and all these things. these typical uh characteristics of AI writing and all of this is still like I said very much applicable but underlying all of these processes and things there is this one single rule that I want to teach you today. So I'm whenever I'm working on these texts and I work on these texts a lot by the way if you want to learn how to do it there is uh so much that I have to offer. So there are individual one-to-one sessions that I offer. There is training and workshops that I offer online for how to do it as well as a service where I manually humanize your awitten text. So feel free to uh explore my website for all these services. But coming back to our topic of the video when I engage in these process and I reflected on what's my logic behind these processes I realized there is just one thing that I have overlooked in my previous videos and it is it is that rule. So quickly to understand it let me just explain very briefly how AI writing works. So the thing to know about AI writing is that the way it works is basically it's based on statistical probability. That's all it comes down to. There are many processes and algorithms, but it's really all about predictability. In other words, when AI writes, it doesn't really think about the outcome. It doesn't really plan or think how to say things. All it does, it just tries to compile a sentence and then a string of sentences and then paragraphs based on statistical probability. What it does is it inserts a word and then it inserts another word that's the most likely statistically likely word to follow that first word and then it inserts another word that's again statistically the most likely words to follow that word and that combination of words. It's all about stat statistical probability and that's all you need to know for now about how how a writing works. But then how does AI detection work? because then again this will lead us to how to humanize AI written text successfully and AI detection works exactly the same as AI writing works finally it's based on statistical probability so AI detection when uh the AI detector is looking at a certain uh sentence or string of sentence or paragraph or text again [snorts] it's using judgment so to speak based on statistical probability. So it's looking at a word or string of sentences and words and tries to predict what comes next. If it's successful in predict in predicting what comes next then it comes to conclusion that is probably AI writing because AI predicted that most statistically uh predictable outcome of the sentence or specifically the structure. So it managed to predict what comes next and then it managed to predict what comes next again. What this means is that this text was predictable for AI and it could uh safely conclude that it was also written by AI. And now we're getting to the topic of humanizing AI written text. And I wonder if you already suspect where this is going. So when we humanize a written text, what do we essentially have to do is to make sure that the text is less statistically predictable. Now you're thinking, okay, well easier said than done. I'm not a computer. I'm not an algorithm. how how do I know how statistically predictable this text is? But here's the rule and here is a simple really simple insight and trick. What you're looking at once you have your AI written text, what you're essentially looking at, remember is the text that's the most statistically predictable version of that text. What this means, in other words, is that any changes we do to it in practically predictable because it's different from that version that was statistically predictable and therefore created by AI. And now the skeptics will say, well, okay, but I've been in a situation where I changed a few words or more than a few words. It still was flagged as AI, so you're full of it. It's not exactly how it works. However, it's true and I've been there as well. However, how this works is not just about the words. The biggest problem, the biggest problem when we take AI written text and we try to humanize it is that we are still forced into or molded into that structure that this original AI writer gave us. So quite often we change many words, we change words within sentences. However, we are still in the same structure. There is still similar amount number of sentences in the paragraph. the sentences are kind of flowing in a similar way. Uh they have similar length and similar number of words even though we changed the words. We're still in that very same structure. So uh and that algorithm that I told you about is obviously much more complex than how I described it. So it still takes this structure and the combination of words and than the order of sentences and even their tenses and all this information and again calculates the statistical probability. So it's more than just replacing the words. So what it is about then is really messing things up a little bit. And this is where we come back to all these things that I told you about in the past. So changing the sentence length and structure and messing up the tenses sometimes or or changing introducing some passive instead of active sentences and so on and so forth. Just trying to make it different from what it is at the moment. And I'll show you in a second how I work on a on a sentence and how I redo it so that it does not get flagged. So what you can see on the screen is a GPT0 uh workspace. I'm not the biggest fan of this AI detector and I usually discourage people from using it. Uh but the reason I discourage them from using it is because it's too aggressive. It's not a good AI detector. It's too aggressive. They pride themselves in high uh AI detection rate which is true but it's only because they also produce a high percentage of false positives. So basically misinterpreting human text as AI writing. They don't care if they are correct or not because they have their statistics. They can pride themselves and being in all almost every time detecting AI uh written text correctly. But I chose it for this video specifically for that purpose because it's so aggressive and so hardcore. So so here we have this text short text. I just want to give you an example of, you know, two sentences. Short text uh about the importance of teaching sports in schools. And if I scan it, you'll see that it does get flagged. It basically says it's uh 83% like pure AI and then it's it's been edited and and generally generally it's AI writing. So now I'll show you in a second I'll show you another version of this uh sentence uh except that I edited this sentence and then we'll look at the differences together. This is a new version of that sentence. Let's scan it. You can see that is human written. And now let me compare these two versions. So here what you can see is the original which means AI written text. And here is the edited version of it. So let's look at the original. It starts by talking about teaching sports in school and how it's important uh in development and then talks about things that are beyond the physical fitness. So like mental health, social development, engagement, academic engagement and whatnot. So then it turns to uh the physical aspect of development. So strength, coordination, endurance, and all the all these things. And this one was flagged by by AI. It doesn't really feel that much AIish. Although it kind of does because it has, for example, triplet phrasing, which I always talk about. So three things in a row. It does have a bit of like dramatization and and trying to justify the importance of something like starting by just saying something something fairly vague is like it's it plays a crucial role. Why not just say what it leads to? You always have to start like it always has to start with like plays a crucial role or has been a complex and popular topic. It always kind of introduces it first but it's not a big deal. However, clearly these things are statistically predictable. just the or even the order of things. Uh if you look at like a proper AI detector, it will tell you how often these things happen and you'll see that for example in like thousand or million text there is this exact same combination and same order like health, social development, academic engagement. So this means it's AI in my text the text I edited I did keep some of that stuff but I completely reversed the structure firstly. So I did start to talk about importance of teaching sports but then I just uh and I said it goes beyond physical fitness but then I did continue to talk about physical fitness. So I I said although it undoubtedly contributes to increased strength, endurance and all these things and then I said most importantly however is this non-physical uh non-physical you know stuff and non-physical outcomes. So mental health academic engagement so it's just already a different structure. Is it better? Is it worse? I mean to me it's better because also I thought about the whole message that I'm trying to send and I thought it makes more sense to at least mention the physical and then mention the non-physical aspects as opposed to here where it starts to talk about you know extending beyond physical aspects starts to talk about mental health and social engagement and then just randomly starts talking about the physical aspects. It's kind of weird like it's not the the main point. It's not the most important point that my sentence is some way in some way is better. It's just different. Remember this one was the most statistically predictable version. I already reversed the structure hoping that it will be less statistically predictable. But what is more important is that I reversed some uh some order as well. So for example, I still talk about areas like mental health, academic engagement, but as you can see, it's a different order already. Here it's talking about mental health, social development, academic engagement. And I talk about mental health, academic engagement, and development of social skills. I use a slightly different wording just hoping that I, you know, rather than social development, I can kind of make it more explanatory, descriptive, and and hope that it's also a structure that hasn't been used so many times. And the reason I reverse the order of mental health and academic engagement again is simply hoping that if mental health social development was the structure was the order picked by AI, I was hoping that if I reverse that order, it's already not the most common and the most predictable order. I did make some additions here as well. Also I I said most importantly however just to increase the flow and also because it wasn't there and also I introduced a little bit of like a passive tense to it because I said participation in sports has been known to influence other areas just because there was no no passive tense here I decided to introduce passive tense again to make it different uh hoping that it will be uh it won't be as statistically predictable as the first version of it. So these are just examples of what I did. But an important point to to be made here. None of what I did is the right way to do it. So don't feel like oh uh he introduced passive voice. He changed the order to things and then he changed the order of sentences and that's what I need to do. I'll make a note and that's what I'll do in my text. None of that. So don't don't you worry about trying to memorize these things or trying to replicate exactly what I did because it's not the point. It's not the point of what I'm trying to do here. Maybe I could have been fine with less changes. Maybe uh you would have introduced different changes than I did and you would probably be successful as well. So what is the point? Apart from this this phrase that I keep repeating making it less statistically predictable, but how do we decide and how do we do that? So the key point is when I'm looking at the text, what I'm trying to really achieve is I'm looking at the meaning. I'm trying to look at the meaning first. So I'm not focusing on individual sentence and trying to replace a few words and then moving on to the next one. I'm looking at the meaning ideally for two three sentences in a row. Sometimes the whole paragraph even and that's the best way to do it. So does it involve manual edits? Of course it does. So many people criticize me in the comments saying, "Oh wow, how did you come up with that? You basically are doing that manually." Well, of course I am. That's what we're trying to do here. We're trying to manually edit AI written text. There is no other way. So it does involve a lot of work. It does involve a lot of manual work. However, when you're looking holistically, let's say at the whole uh couple sentences or a paragraph, it actually makes it easier because if you're focusing uh on the level of individual sentences, there's a lot of mess. It will it's a lot of back and forth and you'll change a few words, it will clear the AI flag and then you'll change another sentence, it will go back to flagging it as a AI. So it actually is easier to look at the full context like a whole couple sentences or a whole paragraph and then try to just think what are they saying and how can I say it differently. How would I say it? And as I'm doing that I do look at the original sentence just to make sure that I didn't just repeat the whole sentence. And the most important thing and things I've been teaching you before changing the sentence lengths and changing the sentence structures. That's the key point. As I'm trying to do that, I always want to make sure that if there are long sentences, I may uh break down one of those long sentences into two short ones. If there are short sentences, I make create one longer sentences. One longer sentence or like here if there is no passive voice, I'll introduce passive voice. If there is no connector, transitional connector like however, most importantly, I will add it just to to introduce some key difference in structure. So I'm not fitting that into that same mold uh that structure that was dictated by by AI. And that's everything. Wow, this turned out to be a long video just about one simple rule. But I hope without all this talk. Hopefully you learned something new. Please do like the video if you did. Please share it with others to just help spread the word. Uh ask your questions in the comments. I always try to interact with you as much as possible. ask your questions and also feel free to explore the different services that I offer if you're still struggling and you want to learn more about these processes.