Provenance: https://www.readsocialfiles.com/p/founder-led-content-is-no-longer-enough — Social Files newsletter by Tommy Clark — fetched verbatim 2026-07-15

Founder-led content is no longer enough.

Social Files by Tommy Clark

LoginSubscribe

0

Social Files by Tommy Clark
Posts
Founder-led content is no longer enough.

Founder-led content is no longer enough.
The new reality of cracking distribution in 2026

Tommy Clark
 July 06, 2026 

 Hey! 

 Welcome to Social Files—your no-BS guide to generating demand for your B2B product using social & content. 

 I spent my weekend catching up on some reading and enjoying some World Cup matches. We were spoiled with some phenomenal matchups: Cape Verde and Argentina, Brazil and Norway, England and Mexico. Still not over that Cape Verde equalizer in extra time. 

 Anyway, let’s talk marketing. 

 A single-founder organic LinkedIn strategy is table stakes, but it’s no longer enough to break through the noise on social in 2026. You must adapt, and today I have two ways for you to do so. 

 Shall we? 

🔎 DEEP DIVE

Founder-led content is no longer enough.

The new reality of cracking distribution in 2026

 2-3 years ago, “founder-led” content was a fringe strategy in B2B marketing. There were plenty of consumer influencers. But a B2B SaaS founder trying to build a personal brand? 

 Only a few were taking it seriously. Adam Robinson at RB2B, Austin Hughes at Unify, Marty Kausas at Pylon, to name a few. 

 Because of the low supply (most founders didn’t want to put the time into writing content), the bar for LinkedIn content was quite low compared to platforms like Instagram. There was an arbitrage to be exploited. If you had one founder (usually the CEO) posting 3-5x per week, you would grow, and grow fast. Those days are gone. 

 Long, long gone. 

 Now, in the year of our Lord, 2026, everyone is pushing founder-led content. One of the first hires tech founders make after raising a Series A is a ghostwriting agency or an in-house content marketer. Or, now, a shitty AI agent to mass-produce ‘passable’ posts for them. 

 As the adage goes, “Marketers ruin everything.” 

 Anyway. The takeaway is: Competition is at an all-time high.

 LinkedIn as a platform is also facing (self-imposed) headwinds. They are pushing users to pay for Thought Leader Ads; lowering organic reach. They are trying (unsuccessfully) to mimic the interest graph that makes TikTok and Instagram Reels so compelling. It is a mess, and while it is—and will likely remain—the default for B2B marketing, I would not bet on it alone. 

How the hell do you win in this environment?

 There are two paths you must run in parallel to rebuild a content moat in 2026. 

 (1) Go harder on LinkedIn. Not just one founder, but 4-5+ voices in your company, posting multiple times per week. Use content signals like engagement and Profile Visits to guide Warm Outbound. Treat exec content like a creative pipeline for Thought Leader Ads. 

 If you’d like an example of this done well, look no further than Clay. They have a handful of execs—both founders, Head of Marketing, Head of Sales, etc—posting on LinkedIn. 

 It feels like they are everywhere. Clay has created an echo chamber and trapped you in it. 

 You can—and should—do this with your ICP. 

 (2) Build a Content Ecosystem beyond LinkedIn. Newsletter is the next obvious choice. But also Instagram, YouTube, and X. I’ll write more tactical guides on how to execute this, but for now, I only need you to understand: there is no reason not to be everywhere your ICP is; not when the repurposeability of core ideas is so high. 

 A newsletter piece can turn into a native LinkedIn post. A section from said newsletter can turn into a short-form video script for a green-screen explainer. The same script can be adapted to a carousel. A short-form text post. 

 One idea—One!—can get so much mileage. 

 Yet the current state of B2B marketing is condemning that one, compelling idea to an organic LinkedIn post that gets no reach. 

 Independent of LinkedIn performance woes, this omnipresence feeds into the echo chamber I mentioned earlier. 

 There’s this funnel-building software called Perspective that literally follows me around the internet. Every time I open Instagram, LinkedIn, my email, YouTube—the blonde Dutch kid that’s their CMO is right there waiting for me. 

 And guess what? I signed up for their tool. 

 I guess my point with all this is that founder-led content remains a massive growth lever for B2B companies. 

 Look around, and you see startups winning—Unify, Clay, Perspective, the list goes on. Content still works. It’s only that the old playbook has gone stale. 

 H2 2026 and beyond will require companies to activate more voices, experiment with more sophisticated content ideas, and live on more platforms. 

 Are you up for the challenge? 

 Share today’s piece 

TOMMY’S BOOKSHELF 📚

Current read: The Way of Kings by Brandon Sanderson. I finally finished this book. I have mixed feelings. The ending was great, and I have unanswered questions that make me want to read on in the Stormlight Archive. But, I think this book could have been 300 pages shorter. It was a slog, and put me into a bit of a reading slump. 

 Have you read WoK? What did you think? 

Evergreen reminder: if you haven’t yet, do yourself a favor and read Red Rising. This is the gateway drug to fiction reading as an adult. 

If you want more book content, I’ve built a little audience on Instagram where I post about fiction and writing.

BEFORE YOU GO…

 As always, thanks for allowing me into your email inbox every week. 

 More from Social Files: 

 Read the rest of my essays

 Work with my agency in 2026 

 Steal my founder-led content templates

 Talk soon, 

 Tommy Clark 

Social Files by Tommy Clark

Your no-BS guide to building a profitable B2B social media presence.

Home
Posts
Authors

© 2026 Social Files by Tommy Clark.

Privacy policy
Terms of use

Powered by beehiiv
