What if I told you there's physics
involved in doing business? Just like
gravity has laws, business has laws,
too. There are four invisible forces
that govern customer psychology and can
10x your sales. These forces are like
the physics of customer behavior. Once
you understand them, you can predict
what customers will buy before they even
know it themselves. Meet Steve, a
founder of a virtual reality platform
that helps architects turn their 2D
sketches into rich, immersive
walkthroughs for their clients. He used
this framework and his sales accuracy
jumped from 10% to 89%. In this video,
I'll show you exactly how to use these
forces to design offers customers cannot
refuse. And so, a few years ago, I'm
pitching my product to a potential
customer. They say they love our
product, say it's exactly what they
need, and we are both excited. 3 weeks
later, I get an email from them. Thanks,
but we have decided to stick with our
current process. This happened to me 17
times before I realized I was missing
something fundamental. I was focused on
wielding just one force, pull during my
demos, but I learned that there are
three other forces that I wasn't using
and leveraging. Our virtual reality
founder friend Steve from past videos
also had the same blindness. His VR
demos were incredible. Everyone was
wowed by them, but no one was buying.
Like me, he usually got the polite no
treatment, something along the lines of
we need to think about it, or the timing
isn't just right. It's easy to throw up
our arms in the air when this happens
and dismiss this as just the way it is.
But then that's when it hit me. Customer
decisions aren't rational or irrational.
They are driven by basic laws of
physics. Just like Newton's laws of
motion, customers too are subject to
forces. And until the forces pushing
them away from their current solution
exceed the forces pulling them back,
they won't move. No matter how good you
think your product is, here's exactly
how the customer forces work. The first
force that kicks everything else off is
push. This force is triggered by an
external event often caused by a
frustration with the status quo, a pain
that is getting worse, problems that
start costing time or money, or some
other external pressure like a
regulatory change that causes the
prospect to want to switch to something
else. Most founders never take the time
to really understand this force of push,
which is the underlying motivation for
change. They instead focus only on the
number two force pull where they try to
attract the prospect towards their new
capabilities and promise them better
outcomes through emotional appeal and
rational benefits. But unless the
prospect is already primed for change,
they will often downplay or completely
ignore these benefits in their mind
because the other two forces, inertia
and friction, play an even bigger role.
Force number three is inertia. And this
represents our resistance to change. All
objects at rest prefer to stay at rest.
This is the first part of Newton's first
law of motion. These are the stories
playing out in the prospect's mind.
We've always done it this way. Or our
current solution isn't all that bad.
Change is hard or good enough is just
good enough. And the other detracting
force that keeps them from buying is
force number four, friction. This is the
fear or anxiety of trying something new.
Things like what if it doesn't work?
What if we waste time and money? What if
it's harder than promised? Or what if we
look stupid at the end? These are the
stories that keep people from using a
new solution and keep them stuck on
their in their mind safer current
solution. A purchase decision then comes
down to basic physics. A prospect will
buy if the forces of push plus pull is
greater than inertia or friction. Now,
unfortunately, it's a little bit worse
than this because of the principle of
loss aversion. Humans don't typically
behave like rational objects. The
principle of loss aversion is the
behavioral economics principle pioneered
by Daniel Cannaman and Amos Traverski
where they found that people tend to
feel losses or negative forces more
intensely, sometimes two to three times
more intensely than equivalent gains or
positive forces. What this means for us
is that prospects will tend to
exaggerate their inertia and friction or
fear of trying something new and
downplay your claims when making a
decision. This is precisely why just
focusing on the pull or benefits of your
product isn't enough. Your pitch needs
to work on all four forces. So, let's go
back to Steve. Once he understood these
forces, he completely redesigned his
entire sales pitch. Before he was solely
focused on pulling. He led with an
amazing demo, emphasized cool
technology, focused on features and
benefits, and had a 10% close rate.
After he reworked his pitch to tackle
all four forces, and he started with
push to trigger the motivation for
change. In his case, he teased the
promised land by showcasing how other
architects were already using a new way,
virtual reality, in their client
discovery calls to close more deals
faster. This created instant FOMO in the
minds of his prospects. He then
amplified their pain to mitigate their
inertia or resistance to change by
describing how their current solution
was incapable of competing with this new
approach. I call this step breaking the
old way in the mind of the prospect.
This setup created the opening he needed
to then contextualize the pull of his
product with an impressive but focused
demo that delivered exactly on this
promise. And the final and most fun step
was reducing friction by offering, in
his case, a mafia offer with a risk-free
pilot period where he would actually
help close their next deal with his
solution. Who would say no to that? Once
he started using this new approach, his
close rate went from 10% to 89% and most
architects bought on the spot. That's
what happens when you wield not just
one, but all four forces in your pitch.
In the next section, I'll walk you
through a step-by-step process for
mapping your customer forces. Step
number one is the customer forces
interview. Now, sure, it's possible to
take a guess at these forces, but the
nature of new products is that at the
outset, we often don't know what we
don't know, unless you're a mind
readader. The best and easiest way I
find to uncover these forces is through
carefully scripted customer forces
interviews. You don't need to interview
hundreds of prospects to figure this
out. Somewhere between 10 and 20 is all
the information you need to unpack these
forces. And that gets you to step number
two, mapping the customer forces. This
is where you segment your customers to
identify real and ideal early adopters
primed for change and rank the most
influential forces to emphasize in your
pitch and in your MVP. Then you move on
to step number three, assembling a mafia
offer. You use what you learned, not
guessed, to craft a carefully scripted
product pitch that hits on all four
cylinders or all four forces. One, it
pushes them to act, pulls them towards
your solution, overcomes their inertia,
and finally closes the deal by
eliminating all friction. Then the fun
begins. Step number four is where you
deliver and optimize your mafia offer.
When you switch from a demo focused
pitch to a storydriven pitch, you lead
your prospects down a more predictable
path where you can measure their
reactions along the way, set them up to
buy or tell you why they're not buying.
Both of which will help you continuously
improve and optimize your offer. And
like Steve, move from hoping they will
buy to knowing that they will. Now, if
you want to map your customer forces,
you can download the customer forces
canvas we use in my demand validation
course. I'm also working on a new AI
powered tool that helps automate and
greatly speed up many of the steps
above. Downloading the canvas will put
you on our launch list and you'll be
notified when that's ready. If you're
new to customer interviewing, you should
watch this video next where I make a
case for why talking to customers the
right way is one of the most important
skills all founders need to master and I
show you how to get started. Thanks for
watching and until next time, take
