Ladies and gentlemen, there are people who study persuasion. Uh there are people who teach persuasion. But there is one person, this gentleman here, who arguably has done more to redefine what's possible with a single presentation than anyone on the planet. Um Jason here didn't come from money or from a marketing dynasty. He came from a 12 $12 an hour job and turned the humble webinar um into a weapon so precise and devastating in its effectiveness that it's generated over a billion dollars in track sales as a result of his work. Um Jason here is the man behind some of the highest converting presentations ever recorded in history um with slides. It's remarkable. And the entire industry has
shifted the way they sell because of his frameworks that he's built quietly in the background. Um obviously Jason, you're not just a marketer but a systems thinker, a student of psychology. Um and if you watching this have ever bought something on a webinar, there's a very strong chance that it's got Jason's fingerprints on it in some way, shape, or form. So ladies and gentlemen, um the webinar God himself, we've got Jason here. Jason, why don't you try and back up that introduction for me and tell people a little bit about your history and where you come from. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's uh amazing to be here, Charlie. Thank you for having me. I got lucky in the sense that I started webinars in
2008 when &gt;&gt; nobody even knew what a webinar was. And I was also fortunate that I had no prior experience. So I didn't know what I was doing right or wrong. I was a blank slate. So I was able to experiment with a lot of the freshness of techniques that are now industry standards because I didn't have any previous successes. As you said, I painted houses and I was a rapper before that and that's kind of how I got into business. So that's a crazy story in of itself, but I was not qualified in any way, shape or form. I mean, we see it these days, right? Kids come out in AI and make a billion dollars and they're 25 years old. And I don't think like a 55 year old guy can do that nearly as
easily because they have these biases. So I came in fresh and I was able to create a lot of cool stuff that we now use everybody um pretty much uses who studied the game and wants to really sell one to many style presentations. &gt;&gt; Incredible, man. And just before we get into the questions I've got here, could you tell us a little bit about some of your best work? I know that you you worked on the Hormosi book launch. Um you've worked with all the big names. Why don't you tell us a little bit about your portfolio? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I really started using webinars to sell like digital coaching programs. This is back in 0809. This is &gt;&gt; you were old school before Facebook ads was
even a thing. Then &gt;&gt; uh we called them e-classes. I made the term up like uh it didn't stick but uh I was selling group coaching programs. So, a webinar to sell a series of webinars. That's like a really good place to start. And then what happened was in about 2010, I'm like, man, &gt;&gt; digital courses are great, but I want to increase the chances of success my audience has. So, my theory was if we gave them interfaces instead of education, maybe interfaces would be the difference. So, I started building software. WordPress at the time powered 25% of the internet. Interestingly enough, it still does. Uh, but back then it was very unclaimed. So, I started using WordPress plugins and
themes and scripts and tools and I was probably the first ever to sell anything WordPress related on a webinar. Uh, and then that worked really good. Software was fantastic, Charlie, but it didn't solve the problem. You gave somebody an interface and if they weren't ready to win, they will find a way to lose. So, I was like, okay, well, maybe instead of creating the product or the software, what if I found the best products on the market and promoted them as an affiliate? Because affiliates, even to this day on a lot of programs, they'll get 50% of the referral because it's it costs more to spend that money on traffic on Facebook, Meta, Google to produce the sale. So, I was on the affiliate.
I'm like, what if I use webinars to sell other people's products? So, I find the very best products out there and then I enhance the offer with my own bonuses and then I sell their product better than they can sell it. And then we quickly became the best affiliates in the game. I still have the record 9.8 $.8 million in 8 days in 2015 selling somebody else's product. Hasn't been broken yet, but uh that was Amazon. So, I caught the WordPress wave. I caught the Amazon wave. We were amongst the first for private label sellers teaching them how to use Amazon. And then crypto came along in 2020. uh found a little edge there published uh a man named Dan Hollings under our company and we did $57
million in 226 days from an idea to cart close on those succession of launches. Uh and that was a that was a big winner. Um we've done a lot of other stuff too in between that and I have consulted for all the biggest names in the space. I've even done a little bit of consulting for Zoom itself um teaching its users that were webinar subscribers how to do webinars more effectively. And man, it just been at it for 19 years. &gt;&gt; What a ride, man. So, you said that you you caught the WordPress wave, you caught the Amazon wave, the crypto wave. What do you think the wave is now? And it and you can't say AI because obviously that's that's obvious, right? But if you were to &gt;&gt; if you
were to look into the future here with the internet marketing space, what do you think the next big opportunity is going to be? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, social media is everything. And I was really late to that party. Uh Charlie, I'm making up for lost time because the way we built a business was email marketing. Email was everything like um and again I have a lot of basis in affiliate um contests. So an affiliate contest is a product launch would go out. A thousand or 2,000 or 5,000 really good affiliates would promote that. You would promote it because you could make a lot of money. You would promote it because you would win prizes. like some of these prizes you would win is on top of the
commissions you would get $100,000 or you would get like a fancy watch or a cool car or whatever the case I've won a lot of that stuff. Um and then you also get bragging rights because there's a winner and then there's a bunch of losers and nobody wants to be a loser. Everybody wants to be a winner. Uh so I would look at these leaderboards and study them. Uh and I'd be like who else is on the leaderboard that's a threat? Who else could beat us? Um who's winning and who's losing? Who's in the top 10? And there was never an instance with maybe like three exceptions where it'd ever be somebody that came from somewhere other than email. Like any social media person, they could have 10 million
followers. They couldn't crack the top 10 on an affiliate leaderboard. And this is as as nose tonose toes to toes as you can get on who can sell the best, who can convert the most, who has the best relationship with their audience. And there was a quality diametrically opposed to quantity. The more you had, the less they tended to make. the less you had, the right less, the more you tended to make. And so I'm like, man, this social media stuff is stupid. Like, nobody buys that's on a social media follower. And that was generally true until one day it was no longer true. Uh, so email has went down significantly in its usefulness because, you know, Slack is where people now go to communicate
internally. Uh, WhatsApp is where they go to communicate. iMessage or message is where they go. They slide into the DMs now. And so all these other places have an increase in frequency. They're trending upwards and email is trending downwards which is a problem in a product launch driven industry. Um so that's an issue. The other issue is direct response has not been as hot as it used to be. Um because everybody's hyper aware of direct response. So Charlie, it's crazy that &gt;&gt; when I came in this business, Google did not allow you to promote squeeze pages. Like give me your email address and I'll give you this free report. Google said you can't do that. You got to give them what you
promised them and then ask them to opt in. So for many years you are not allowed to even use platforms like Google to use direct response style marketing. Direct response is at the end of this you either take this action or you don't take this action. Uh a large part of the internet was institutionalized in terms of its advertising and it was brand based like let me create awareness and then somehow that leads to purchase. Um, and that way we were all we'd always laugh at. I'm like, "These stupid companies, they have no idea about direct response. God, they're they're Neanderthalss." But really smart companies understood direct response. YouTube understands it. Facebook understands it.
Amazon understands it. And the biggest limit to direct response in the past was well, we couldn't track it. But now they can track everything you do down to &gt;&gt; eeriness. Like a funny story, Charlie. When I first time I went to Dubai, like I pulled up my phone, I got on YouTube and your video showed up. A video from you showed up. &gt;&gt; No way. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; I don't know if the government necessarily wants that to happen. &gt;&gt; And and you had this YouTube video and it was about living in Dubai. Like you went over there and I think right like if I'm remembering it correctly and I'm like the algorithm is smart enough to know geographically I am in a new location. They
know that I like these types of topics. They feed me you who I had never heard of before and that was my first introduction to you was in that kind of and that is that is response driven by analytics. Um and so we are now direct response completely. Kids that get on YouTube know how to do calls to action in ways that businesses I used to advise never could understand of like, subscribe, comment. Those are three calls to actions. That's a direct response mechanism. But what happens is when consumers are inundated with direct response, they become more resistant to it. So branding becomes more effective in these scenarios and branding becomes more feasible. I told my wife this the other night,
like we've been playing in the social media game. We're we're certainly amateurs at this point. Uh but we had one conversation at dinner that we filmed and we put it on the interwebs and it got 2.5 million views across all platforms. And I said, "Baby, we just had dinner with 2.5 million people, right?" It was like never has there been a time where that's possible. So, it's very exciting to be able to do branding now. And it's very interesting to me to be able to reach them on social to create awareness as opposed to be direct response reliant. And it's never one or the other. We have to blend the best principles of direct response, blend the best principles of branding, uh know when to push
versus when not to push, know how to create value, but also ask for the sale. And so I'm really exciting to take what I've spent so many years mastering it and combining it with what I feel is the new frontier in terms of the opportunities. Never is it easier to reach a million people if you have the right strategy, but if you don't have the right strategy, never has it been harder to make money online. &gt;&gt; Oh, certainly. I mean, one thing I wanted to ask is you you mentioned that you got into this game in 2008 and obviously that's a really critical time in financial history because you know you have this massive recession. So what I'd love to ask and this is sort of off script of what
I had planned to ask you, but how did the financial crisis of 2008 have an impact on your work and in internet marketing? Did you think it it helped because more people were looking for opportunities to make money or do you think it hindered and and how did you navigate that? because you have probably the same thing with co as well. &gt;&gt; So I was completely unaware of the housing crisis, the mortgage crisis of 2008. Like I was blissfully unaware. Uh I was born in ' 83. So I was like 20 25 at the time. I never bought a house before. I bought my first house in 2009 and it was really weird because they like needed like a blood sample and a DNA. Like it was crazy like just and I'm like guys
look at my bank account. like I could buy this house if I wanted to cuz God when you hit it in this business you hit it. I went from broke to rich very fast. &gt;&gt; And then my guy was like, "Hey, listen. This is because of this mortgage crisis." And I'm like, "What?" Like, "I didn't even know this existed." &gt;&gt; What's a mortgage? &gt;&gt; I'm an internet marketer. I don't &gt;&gt; I was like, "Really?" They're like, "Yeah, they used to any guy walk in there and says, "How much money do you need? I need this much." "Okay, you got it. Here's a bag of it." I'm like, "Really? &gt;&gt; It's not supposed to work that way." And he was like, "Yeah, I know." Now, here's the problem with it.
So, I did not know that that existed. So, it didn't impede any strategy that I had. At the same time, then it was a benefit. When there's blood in the streets, there's money to be made is a generally correct statement. Uh so, people were looking for alternatives. the system that they relied on had failed them and so they were now open to doing things outside of that system and there was pain involved and people are more motivated to solve a pain than they are to gain a pleasure and so this was fortunate for me now I don't know if that is true in 2026 um there's this concept of black swan events new things can happen and therefore it changes the whole arithmetic of how people behave um and so
I don't know I know for co we were specifically benefited because I was the webinar expert. People who did not know what webinars were yesterday now keenly needed to master webinars and all roads point to me. So I was like cool that that was a huge benefit when nobody could go outside. Uh the the attention span increases and now you have more that you can help somebody with if they give you more attention the more value you can provide to them. So we got to benefit from that. Now the in the incoming crisis I am very unsure of how it's going to play out Charlie especially with young men like the statistics are very depressing. &gt;&gt; Uh the wages of young men have increased minimally but
the cost of being a young man these days has increased significantly. Uh and the support around the young man has drastically decreased. Um and so that's a dangerous situation. AI who knows how that's going to play out. That's very curious. What I've discovered though is if I operate in this principle of uncertainty then my life becomes uncertain. Um but if I am able to make good sound strategy and I make decisions of how I can engineer value that far exceeds whatever I charge I don't think there's any situation where that's not useful. The conditions may be harder this time than they were last time or they may not be. But hey, if it needs to be done it, you do it whether it's hard or it's
easy. That's the philosophy that served me very well. So, but we'll see. May you live in interesting times as a Chinese curse. &gt;&gt; We Yeah, it's going to be it's going to be a strange strange thing. So, that that's my first question. My first official question on my list. And by the way, I'm going to take notes as as we go because selfishly, guys, I've got an awful lot to learn here. So, I'm going to be asking questions a lot for my own gain as well as as well as those that the audience will be curious about. But I got this here. Um I most people introduce you as the $250 $50 million webinar man. Um, I think that underells you because I think genuinely you are probably one of the best
persuasion architects that we have up there with Charles Gini and stuff. Do you think that the webinar label has boxed you in? Do you think that that is a good box for you to be in or do you think it it's too compressive? &gt;&gt; It's too compressing. Uh, it's a great question. Like this is the side effects of branding. Like I didn't know anything about branding but the consumer can hold only one word per industry type business type maybe two words at most this is how markets function and so it undersells the value that I provide to clients like when I do consulting for people like Hermoszi the webinar is a small portion of what we're actually consulting on what we're consulting on most
important is offer and positioning so I am a strategist on the conversion side when it comes to you give me an audience that is qualified to purchase and I will extract more conversion events out of that audience than pretty much anybody alive. That is really my value that I add. But you know markets don't know how to categorize that and put it in a bucket. So and I and I haven't helped them either throughout the years. So no it it definitely undersells the value of what I do but you know the right people know and they come calling. So uh well compensated but there always can be improvements. &gt;&gt; Interesting. And let's let's go back to the the beginning of this cuz I read I think this
was in marketing speak that you used to meditate upwards of six hours a day as a as a Krishna monk. Um, and most people obviously would interpret that as sort of the opposite of a of a high pressure sales environment or you know this this sort of pressure to make a decision. Um, but I would probably argue that your monk years are the secret weapon behind all the stuff you do. So how much of your psychology of persuasion um is just applied meditation? Like is there an overlap here or? &gt;&gt; So this is how I've always thought of it is so there's premon and then there's postmon Jason. So prek Jason was &gt;&gt; four panic attacks a day, agorophobic, couldn't leave the house, fear of open
spaces, train wreck of a life, right? I I was about 20 years old around there at the time. And man, like getting out of bed was was difficult. like &gt;&gt; it was more difficult to get out of bed then than it is to make a million dollars now. &gt;&gt; Um, and so part of me just couldn't function and so the meditation allowed me to be functional when priorly I was completely dysfunctional. So from that instance it helped a lot. Now when I learned how to quiet the mind and learned how to focus it really energized me. It switched me on to the possibility of operating at a higher frequency like tapping into the infinite source of creation allows me to better create and to have more impact.
Right? So this is like okay this is good and then the ability to focus which the quietness of the mind allows to occur is I could study anything and break it down to its first principles and then get really deep into it and master it. Um, and that is when you are in that deep meditative state and you can function at that level, you acquire knowledge at a higher degree faster than anything else that I know of. Um, and so I think that helped out a lot too. But also I think you're right in the sense of when you really get to the soul of the human, you know, like not the brain and not the heart, but the soul, the ability to connect to somebody else increases significantly. And I think that was a
big part of what helped me too as a monk is, you know, the soul in me can see the soul inside of you. And I can feel that deeper connection than just what the body shows us or the physical reality shows us. And I think that shows up in my work as I'm able to go to a deeper level of connection in the communication and that gets a higher response rate. So those are some of the things, but uh I I need to get back I was telling my wife this last night. And I'm like, I need to get back to at least two and a half hours of meditation a day. I'm like, that is my sweet spot. If I'm under that, I have a lot of anxiety. Like, I I I've been feeling really anxious the last year or two. And I'm like, I
need to get that under control. And if I just get that under control, forget about improvements. If I can just remove the 50 pounds that I'm carrying around in my body every single day, I'll function at a higher level. But also, the meditation, I think, unlocks the deeper truths which resonate more with the audience. Yeah. Beautiful idea. How much do you think that your mood or mental space has an impact on the stuff that you write or create? Because there's this obviously when we talk about meditation and we talk about calmness and frequencies, it it's the complete opposite to you know um like cognitive biases and and script writing and hooks and CTAs. How much of your marketing success do
you think comes down to the more spiritual side of things as opposed to the hard business skills? &gt;&gt; Yeah, there's certainly an overlap, but you know, I've worked with so many successful people over the years. Like everybody, I'll tell you, most of them are not that happy in their life, but when the bell rings, they show up and they knock it out, right? So, this is a conditioned response. So I think a lot of this is habituated. If you can just condition yourself to to respond in a certain way, in a certain situation, it's amazing how effective anybody can be. You know, the whole joke is I like I if I was on social media 20 years ago, I'd have popularized all these kind of movements and
counter movements that are now popular because my joke was like my morning routine. So this is after becoming a monk. So I became a monk. I had a great morning routine without knowing what a morning routine was, right? And then I drifted. &gt;&gt; It's the morning. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, they call it Mongolo RT. So, like you rise within a certain amount of time of the sun rising because it's supposed to be a super auspicious time and then you do certain rituals um of service immediately because it's a great way to start your day. So, I was just following a program. I I you know, like I didn't think about optimizing my morning, none of that crap, right? Uh and then, you know, I drifted away
from being a monk because I got distracted from this business stuff and really locked into it. I got this problem, Charlie, where I'm very binary. I'm either into something or it doesn't exist and there's very little in between. So, when I got like hyperfocused on business, I couldn't think of anything else and that's all I did for a period of time. So, I lost all my spiritual practice as I built my business. And then my morning routine became I'd wake up in the morning, I'd smoke a cigarette, and I would drink a diet coke and then I would go and smash it for two hours. Like that was my morning routine because I was trained to be able to reduce the time from waking to being productive down
to however long it took me to smoke a cigarette. Um, and you know, I didn't know again that nicotine has a sort of positive effect in some ways towards productivity and cognition. So does caffeine. They all have costs, don't get me wrong. Uh, and this was an ideal morning routine that was sustainable for five 10 years maybe, right? like it's not a long-term thing. Uh but yeah, this is uh I was able to reduce the time from waking into being productive down to about 5 minutes and what better way and I could do that. I did that for five or 10 years during the most energetic portion of my life when I was younger. There's like that is the goal. So however you get there is how you get there. Now
ideally you do it in more holistic ways but I was able to just immediately myself to switch it on. So, you know, being spiritual is probably better for the soul, but you can be very productive and be very destructive at the same time. &gt;&gt; Everything comes at a cost. I wanted to ask about this because you said you you were a rapper. Um, and I know that you didn't leave music because you necessarily failed at music, but you left because you thought that it wasn't something that was sellable. Um, like that's obviously a distinction. Like at what moment did you realize that it wasn't the product that was the problem, but it was the market or the marketing? &gt;&gt; You know, and I would say
I totally failed at it to be honest, Charlie. &gt;&gt; Oh, well, that's not my place to say, man. &gt;&gt; You know, I had to work like 10 hours a day just to be okay. And some of these guys, you know, they didn't work 10 hours a day and they were already better than me. Um, so it wasn't the right fit. Um, it it's like there's three elements that require success. One is you have to have absolute passion for it in some way, shape or form. Passion is isn't sufficient but it is necessary. The other side of it is is you got to have the right aptitude in order to extract value out of it. Um and then the third element is it's got to be trending upwards. So, I had the passion for music, but I did
not have the proper tools and skill sets that could make that something that would work for me. And the industry was trending downwards at the time because I was trying to sell CDs when the CD was just about ready to die. Um, and you know, so I was in between the shift like if I would have known where Spotify was going and I was younger, maybe I could have leveraged that, right? Uh but I just wasn't good enough to combine the work ethic that I had and the timing was also terrible. Um so but what I the fundamental shift for me was you know I try to solve the problem. So like this isn't working. I'm struggling. I'm trying my hardest and it still isn't cutting it. How do I solve this? So this
is when I started studying business and marketing and I'm like okay well you got to solve somebody's problem. Well what's the problem I'm solving as a rapper? I'm solving an entertainment problem. Problem with entertainment is it's highly substitutable. I could substitute it with Netflix. It doesn't even have to be music. I could substitute it with an infinite variety of cheap and free resources to entertain me. And solving entertainment is very confusing. Like they launch all these movies and most of them fail and only one out of 10 succeed. So how do you solve entertainment? And then I thought started thinking man I love education. I am so passionate about coaching and training. always
have been love performing uh in a webinar as a performance not dissimilar too much as a rap performance would be um and I love speaking in front of audiences I have no friction about putting myself out there I don't crave the limelight but um I have no friction against it and so I'm like and I can solve problems like you know how to write articles faster which was my first product I put out that's an easy problem to solve you write articles in 30 minutes if I can get them down to 15 minutes and I save you 15 minutes every time you write an article, who wouldn't pay me money to solve that problem? So, the problem was easy to solve. And if I could put the same amount of focuses as I was
putting into my music as solving these problems, I seemed like a sureer path. And it certainly was. I proved that very quickly, like, wow, okay, this is something that I'm a passionate about and I have the capabilities to play at the highest level. And the internet was just getting ready to start trending upwards. It's really interesting because I've I've I've heard the CEO of CEO of Netflix say that their biggest competitor is sleep, &gt;&gt; which is quite quite a terrifying thing to to hear. I'd love to know this. You obviously had this rapping career for a while. &gt;&gt; There's a there's a an interesting correlation here because a song is a collection of words, right? Designed to
maintain someone's attention. Same thing is true with a webinar. Do you think there's an overlap between the the skills you learned in being a wordssmith when it came to music and and that of the marketing space? &gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. And even more so on the performative side. Um like working crowds and figuring out how to get a crowd to do something and &gt;&gt; not just the words because if you actually analyze popular music, the words are really basic for the most part. like and even like if you analyze, forget the words, the music itself, it's pretty basic from a music theory perspective. It's not like classical music. It's certainly not like jazz. Um, and then you're like, "Oh, well,
this is music for the masses. This is the things that that markets understand." So then realizing the differentiation between this is why pop music dominates the charts even though it's not particularly profound, it's not technical, it's not very nuanced at the end of the day and it's very cookie cutter. U but these are the triggers that the masses respond to. &gt;&gt; Um and this is what makes a market happy. And then you want to play in this game where I can express myself authentically in a way that makes me feel good and pleases the market. there should be an intersection between the two. Um, but that I think helped me a lot. And again, just crowd dynamics, crowd psychology, learning the
psychology of the audience by being right in front of the audience really queued me in on what makes audiences behave in ways that are not necessarily rational, but at least they're predictable. And then if I know that they behave in those ways, we can influence marketing to accomplish those outcomes. And we can do it in ways with valuable products as opposed to any product because once you understand how a market ticks, you can sell at any product whether it's good or not good. So it's like let's take the best products and then utilize these techniques that allow audiences to make good decisions that are good for them but otherwise they would not make. And I think the music helped me a lot
in that regard. &gt;&gt; Wow. was it's really interesting you talk about I've never thought about it like obviously pop music is is like you said cookie cutter it's it's very sort of basic phonetic English there's no nuance in there's nothing remarkable and I felt like the same thing is very true with educational YouTube videos &gt;&gt; like the videos do you know what I mean &gt;&gt; 18 brutal truths or whatever &gt;&gt; yeah you know and it's it's like you know when you look at the most successful um business influencers or educational influencers at the moment whether It's Iman Gaji, Hormones, Grant Cardone, Tony Robbins. The videos that crush and go viral are very basic videos. And I
think there's obviously there's a massive distinction between being a hyper intelligent entrepreneur and knowing all these things and not being able to communicate that in in in the way in which you speak because obviously the way you're you're discussing me right now is a more highle conversation. You're clearly very fluent with marketing terminology and everything, but that how do you manage that and simplify that into a webinar? like is there a framework that you have for that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, totally. Um the webinar is great because it's not designed for the masses. The webinar is designed for that 7% of the market that spends 70% of its money. So if you analyze every market, that's
generally how the math breaks down. And so somebody who is not really serious about solving a problem isn't going to carve two hours out of their day to show up to some stranger &gt;&gt; with a slide deck. like only somebody who's incredibly desperate, which makes a good purchaser by the way, or somebody who is very wanting to be informed because they realize the power of knowledge and information. Unfortunately, most people do not. like I have three kids and I am trying somewhat successfully but not as successfully as I'd like to empower them to know that how how important the right information is. Um and how the the you know billionaires read more books. It's like this is a simple thing.
So can informed consumers are your best customers you could ever have because the more you can inform them on the right purchasing decision, the more they will make that purchasing decision. So the webinar is great because it is designed for that small segment of the audience. But as a function of it, it will never be accessible really to the masses unless you water it down so completely that what you're presenting probably becomes &gt;&gt; too simplified to the point where I wouldn't want you to sell it because you're going to not meet the expectation that you set by watering down the message for the masses. Right? So like how these two things live is we do mass communication in social
media to drive awareness and then we make invitations only and specifically to the people who are serious at that moment to do what it takes to actually commit time, money and energy to solve their problems. Um now with that said the webinar is the the principle of let's remove all of the things that could prevent failure and then only focus on the few things left that will create success. And that's what I love about the webinar &gt;&gt; uh is &gt;&gt; I I believe fundamentally Charlie that the number one thing you can do to increase your chances of success is first remove the things that would prevent success from occurring. So we start with subtraction. This is what I work with with all
my clients and this is how I think strategically myself. Um, you know, as a metaphor goes, the statue of David started off as a slab of marble and then what was created out of it was removing the unnecessary marble that didn't need to be there. &gt;&gt; Um, so he, you know, there wasn't what paints can we add. It wasn't what things can we draw. &gt;&gt; It's what do we remove that is unnecessary. And I think a lot of success boils down to removing the unnecessary. So what's left is the most important and critical. So when I design a webinar, I say out of everything that's important for this person to now be able to do this thing that they currently can't do but wish they could do. What are
all the things we need to remove that prevent that from happening? We get rid of all those and what's left is a few things and then we say how do we best communicate those few things to have the biggest amount of impact and leverage. And so we start with subtraction and then we have focus. what's left is the few things that we need to focus on and then how do we leverage the most out of those few things humanly possible. Um and then that's really the fundamentals of how we create these webinars, these challenges and these mass communication tools that move markets. &gt;&gt; Could you make that tangible for me with something like a health offer for example? &gt;&gt; Yeah, like and ideally if
you're selling a webinar you want to get even more narrow than that. Um, so &gt;&gt; say let's say let's say like uh I don't know like older women who want to you know lose weight and reverse diabetes for example. I don't know if you know anything about older women's health but just &gt;&gt; right so &gt;&gt; just a guess. &gt;&gt; I can't give a specific we'd have to do the market research to know for certain but I always start with the limitations like what are the beliefs that they hold right now that are untrue but until they let go of those beliefs would prevent from success from happening. Um, so you know, I can I can tell you how we do this in the digital space because um, like the
first big webinar that I ever had was how to create digital products. This is in 2008, how to create and publish. We call them information products back then. And I knew the biggest limitation of somebody being successful was the fact is they couldn't create one. Sounds obvious, right? Like most people cannot see themselves disciplining themselves to sit down for long enough to create a digital product because it's a massive undertaking. Like how many videos are you going to create? How long are those videos going to be? Um all the content that you have to put in place in order to make that happen or if you're going to write books, how long is the book going to be? You know, writer's block
is a real thing. People get serious. I watched my dad try for 40 years to write a book and he never could do it. Right? So, and that by the way that just is a seat at the table. You got a product and then what? Right? Like so &gt;&gt; publish the thing like &gt;&gt; you got to sell it, you got to get traffic to it, you got to fulfill on it and you got to support on it. So you got to support it. &gt;&gt; So my first big webinar and this was not strategic. This was me. So I had tried to create a product and I I failed at it like constantly and then one day out of sheer desperation I said you know what the product starts when I sit down and the product is finished when I stand up. Uh so like I
better cook because if I have to go to the bathroom I either got to go in my pants or I got to finish this product before I stand up. That's how committed I was. Right? So I called these one-sitting products. How can you know is it possible to create a digital product in a single sitting and if so what would be required? So we remove all of the things that can fail and time is one of the biggest factors that create failure. If the time horizon is too long failure is almost inevitable but anybody can see themselves sitting down and blocking out two hours. Like that's not too much of an ask. Um and so this was my big thing. So, I came up with solve one problem in one specific way and do it in
one sitting. And this now removes all of the major excuses that would get in somebody's way. Now, here are some of the other excuses they have. Well, I can't sell the product. Good. Sell it for $4 because it is cheap, right? &gt;&gt; Like, it's an impulse purchase. Like, think of all the stuff that when you're checking out at the grocery store, oh, here's some stupid People magazine. Let me throw that in there. Here's a pack of gum. Let me throw that in there. Right? If we can make it impulsive, we don't have to be good to sell the damn thing. And so it's like, let you're gonna sell these low ticket products that are super cheap, that are super short, that solve very, very specific problems
where people will gamble four, five, six, seven, eight dollars in order to try it out. So we remove all the pressure of how it can go wrong. And that webinar ran for 15 years where alls I had to do was every few years update the product, update a couple slides. probably the long it has to be the longest running webinar in history. &gt;&gt; I don't think I think it's probably the long Yes. I can't think of anything else that would have gone that long. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it it's it's such a cuz you know the industry is not that old. But this was this was a perfect example of that. And so I was like, "Oh, alls I have to do is eliminate the excuses that stop you from saying yes." And saying yes will
become a natural conclusion. If you can no longer say no to me, &gt;&gt; then yes is inevitable. So, we don't optimize for the yes like everybody else does. We remove the reasons to say no, and then as a result, we get more yeses than anybody else does. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; I guess that's just a beautiful thing about inversion. I'm going to go a bit lateral here. &gt;&gt; Um, I have it down that you grew up in a small town in Iowa in Musketine, if I'm pronouncing that correctly. &gt;&gt; Now, obviously small town, no connections. uh no money, no mentor, no network. Like what's the honest version of how lonely and scary it was to start when you don't know anyone or anything? Like most
people skip this part in interviews. They get to the end bit of how much money you've made. But tell me a little bit about the the inception of your journey and how that began. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's so I'm very weird, Charlie. I am atypical in in many fashions. Um &gt;&gt; I know but it's like &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, and again, like I if autism was a thing when I was a kid, I probably would have been the poster child for it. I don't know. I had ADHD and I didn't know it till I was 35, right? Cuz like listen, I got really good grades. Uh so people are like, "Oh, he's fine." Like doesn't matter that he got kicked out of every class that he was in until he was about 12 years old and then he gave up
fighting the system, right? Like I had massive antisocial tendencies. uh which now I'm being paid back with my child. My youngest child is now exhibiting those same ones. And I'm like, "Oh, I know this map. I' i've read it very well in my life." Uh, so, uh, I didn't really care like connection connections like I preferred to be alone most of the time because I was a creative ever since I came out of the womb like and to to create and write and think about and build certain abstracts that turn into reality, you need a lot of alone time. Um, so I'm like, I like being alone. Now, part of the reason I like being alone is the trauma that I dealt with. So, you know, the the scene in Iowa is not
very good because Iowa is not a place where there's a lot of things happening and when you don't have a lot of things happening, you have a lot of people that get into trouble. So, drug use was super high, right? Like &gt;&gt; and it's so funny cuz so my my wife comes from Romania and she was born in 1990 which was when communism was finally you know gotten rid of in Romania right &gt;&gt; I mean it took like several years for it to fully transition but you know on Christmas day in Romania um they revolted the army the Romanian army revolted against the government you know they killed the president and his wife they they put him on trial and And then 9 minutes after the trial guilty verdict,
they took him out back and they shot him. Right. Eastern Europeans go hard, man. Sufficiency, man. Right. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; They don't mess around, man. &gt;&gt; So, she's coming out of communist Romania, which was very poor at the time. It has a lot of it's it's economically uh moved upward in recent years. And so, they lived in poverty. like they stood in bread lines and you know they had uh no hot water and everybody was unbelievably poor for the most part but they were all poor together and there wasn't a drug problem in Europe like there is in the United States there wasn't a homeless problem uh like there is in the United States and so you know the the individualistic nature of
of the US creates the highest of the highs and the lowest of the lows um and so I was in an environment that was really low and there was a lot of drug use. And so I grew up with that. My mom was a drug addict and my mom was a drug dealer. My mom went to prison for six years. Um and she did crystal meth. And crystal meth is no joke, man. Like you smoke that stuff and that's how they would do it. And then you would stay up for two, three, four, five days. They would never go to sleep because they would just keep smoking uh more and more of it. And so these people would come in and out of my house. Some of them, you know, would go to prison for murder or they were coming back from prison for
murder, like manslaughter and all that kind of stuff. And these are the kinds of people that were in my environment and it was very chaotic. And so the easiest way for me to deal with that chaos is just to try to go off into my own world. &gt;&gt; Uh so I didn't have to deal with it. So, you know, it's still tendencies I'm I struggle with today. Some of these anxieties that I dealt with as a kid. Uh, so part of me was like I didn't really care about connection because connection was dangerous to me and it was turbulent. So it was the best place I could be was in a quiet location by myself that was safe for me. So in that instance it it wasn't that difficult. The other &gt;&gt; good thing was
the internet was just starting to blossom. So so I wasn't so geographically constrained by opportunity. I had the capabilities to do things even in a a remote location like Iowa. Uh now I will tell you it's still more advantageous to be in Los Angeles where I'm at right now or to be in Dubai or to be in London or some of these major metropolitan areas. There's there's massive advantages in being those. But again, I didn't know any better. Uh so I just I just did what I could and I grinded. But yeah, I I built this company up. I was I I moved out to LA in 2015. Um, so I'd lived in Iowa my whole life. As soon as I got out here, I was like, how did I ever survive? Like, how did I ever why did I
take so long to get out of a location that was operating at a much lower frequency and being plugged into an location now that operates at a much higher frequency. So, uh, it was tough though, man. But I didn't know any better, right? you do what you can and sometimes ignorance is maybe not bliss but at least it's useful. &gt;&gt; It reminds me of the um I don't know what the actual the allegory of the cave Aristotle's idea or like you know you don't know that there's a difference. It's like being in a toxic relationship for like 20 years and you've never experienced something different and then you're suddenly like wait why did I put up with this? It's because you didn't you didn't have
access to that component of reality or that perspective. you you've mentioned um childhood trauma obviously obviously here but in a lot of other interviews that I watched as well um without you going anywhere you don't want to go do you think that the trauma was ultimately like a prerequisite for understanding what buyers are afraid of and using that I know that a lot of your webinars leverage identity leverage fear do you think that having that deep connection with them and being able to empathize with them on such a visceral level do you think that's helped or am I am I completely off the mark there. &gt;&gt; No, you are spot on. Right. So, the empathy that I have for somebody else's
struggles is very deep because I can relate them to some of the struggles that I've had and I can sit with them &gt;&gt; and I can acknowledge the fact that this is going to be hard and at the same time feel good about recommending them to do it anyway. Um, and I can help them work through some of the conflicts that they have in their mind and in their heart because I've also had to deal with those conflicts myself. Um, and I feel the pain in the way that is very acute to me like other people's pains. And this is as much a curse as a blessing. I can feel the pains of the market at a deeper level personally. So, I feel it in somebody else as I'm conversing with them. And this helps me better
be in tuned to the struggles that they have and helping them work through it. And that's really what I do, Charlie, at the end of the day when I'm selling on these webinars is I'm helping somebody untangle these contradictory feelings they have about wanting something and simultaneously being afraid to go after it. Uh so I take a very consultative approach is I can sit with somebody and work through all the reasons why they should say yes and all the reasons they should say no and then at the end it will be clear to them what the path is for them to move forward with. But generally audiences man when they're conflicted they lock up. They don't know what to do because the feeling of
confliction is so great that it causes them to free the def to freeze or to flee or to fight it. But none of those are necessarily very useful to solving the problem. But yeah, like on the other side too, it's like man, going out there and selling is easy after dealing with a lot of the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that I grew up with as a child. So there's relativity too, right? Like relativity is like really like asking somebody for money like this is not a difficult conversation compared to all of the difficult things I've had to deal with in my life. &gt;&gt; I can I can imagine that um yeah like you know hopping on a stage and talking to a few hundred people and sell them something is pro probably
pales in comparison to navigating a drug den or you know anything of anything of that nature, right? Um yeah that's that's really interesting. Um, and and you mentioned something critical there. I think you talked about how a lot of people want something, but they're afraid to go after it. So, what what do you think is the reason for that? I mean, not to get too far into the weeds of the subconscious here, but I like that quote of the idea that, you know, it's not our it's not our light, not our darkness that most frightens us, but our light, our potential, the thing that, you know, we could be. What what do you where do you think that comes from? &gt;&gt; Yeah. And this goes back to again
subtraction, right? If we can remove this then buying becomes inevitable if it's the right thing and you know so let's let's analyze the three risks that somebody takes when they invest in something the first risk is &gt;&gt; I can give you money and if I get in return less than the money I gave you however we calculate that then that doesn't feel good &gt;&gt; um and you know I could have gave that money somewhere else so money is a risk although what we find is generally it's not that risky like if you are selling to people that don't have money you don't have a selling problem, you have a targeting problem like you're targeting the wrong people. So that has a function completely separate
than what we're talking about here. You need to fix that. Uh but generally good marketing marketing will remove this serious limitation of money as a byproduct of targeting the right people. So money is not really a risk at the end of the day. Like you Ferrari isn't like, "Oh crap, maybe we should lower our prices," right? Like because we're expensive, you know? Ferrari is like, damn, how do we like add another jack up a bit? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And they can and they will and they do. Uh so money is not really that big of a risk. Time is a bigger risk. So this is the second risk that everybody has. And this one is way more serious. If I devote time to this, it's time I can't put
anywhere else. It's time away from my family. It's time away from other things that are important to me. Um and generally people operate on a Parkinson's law. their their life expands to fill the time allotted. So, it's not like people are sitting around saying, "I got a couple extra hours a day that I want to plug into something, right?" They're like, "Okay, I got to unplug from something I'm already doing and then plug into something new." So, the time risk is more significant. And so, people are really afraid of misusing their time psychologically, even though practically speaking, the average person is a master at misusing their time. if you really analyze what they do on a daily basis,
right? But that's not &gt;&gt; they would never admit it. They'd never say they'd always everyone thinks they're productive. You know, everyone are wrong, right? Like people would rather die than admit that they're wrong. And then that leads us to the third risk, which is what are what we call the emotional risk. &gt;&gt; And the emotional risk says things like, what if I bring shame to myself when I do this? What if other people think less of me as a result of me doing this? Uh what if I try this and I fail and then I equate failure with me being insufficient as a human being and now my worth as a person goes down or what if I succeed and the success is so powerful that I can't handle it
and then I end up letting down even more people because I succeed than I would if I fail because if I fail I just let myself down but if I succeed and can't handle it I let a whole bunch of other people down and this is where the real risk is involved is it's all emotional risk and at the heart of it is fear, right? We have to be we're afraid that whatever we're doing is going to be worse than whatever we already have. Even if what we have isn't that great, the fear is we could make it even worse. And that's where all of this comes from. At the end of the day, it's fear. That's it. &gt;&gt; Do you think that if you do you think greed has something to play in here? Because not to challenge
your knowledge, but to what degree do you think greed is more important than fear? And do you think greed might just be an extension of fear if you took it to its first principle? &gt;&gt; This is a great question. Right. So when we're solving in the market, we're looking for leverage. And leverage is the best thing you could ever have in business. And generally, if we do everything everybody else does, we don't get outsized leverage. And what the market tends to do is focus on gain. &gt;&gt; Here's how you'll be successful. Here's how you'll lose all this weight. Here's how you'll make all this money. Here's how you'll get all these chicks. Here's how blah blah blah. Right? So, we could
also focus on gain. And we do, don't get me wrong. We do. But if everybody's doing that, where's our leverage? Like, we're not going to be 10 times better at communicating gain than the next person is going to be. We might be incrementally better, maybe. uh and if the market hears gang gang gang gang gang gang gang gang g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gang g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gang, then it's not that impactful to the market. So there's no leverage there. But if we focus more on the fear and nobody else is focusing on fear, then even if we're not good at it, we have massive leverage because we're bringing a perspective to the equation that nobody else is bringing.
So we can have impact with that perspective that nobody else has impact with. So greed is absolutely important and it's what people are already doing. So we don't get a lot of leverage with saying, "Hey, add more gain to the equation." Like, "Hey, sell more benefits because they already know to do that." And they do a reasonably good job. And so we we're looking for additional leverage on top of that. Where can we get an outsized return for the effort that we put in? This is leverage. And so we get so much more leverage by dealing with fear because so many people in our market always solve for yes. And so when we solve for not no, we get new perspectives to play with and then we get new
leverage. And so we already know all the ways to say yes. And now we got to figure out all the ways to remove the no. And what I find over and over and over and over and over and over and over again is that people discount so much fear because fear is more invisible. Like winning is pretty visible. I can put a trophy out there. I can show a screenshot of a number. We can see the subscriber count on YouTube. &gt;&gt; But like how do you show shame visibly? It's not very obvious. &gt;&gt; People don't like to do it. So &gt;&gt; they don't and it's difficult. And even from an actual perspective of gain is you can you can put numbers on the screen or you add two things. If I want to make an
offer better, here's the typical way that most people will default to. Let me add more stuff to it. Let me add more bonuses. uh let me add more deliverables, let me add more support. Uh because adding is easy visually. It's easy to see yourself adding something. Uh but it's hard to see the invisible. So the negative and the emotion and the fear are generally invisible. Gain is visible. So we optimize for it. Now, the other thing, and I know you're a student of like cognitive biases and decision-making, Charlie, uh, as am I, is people are significantly more motivated because of loss than they are for gain. To the I always tell my kids this uh I I run this thought experiment with them. This is
a dinner table conversation here, right? It's like you wake up in the morning, you find a $100 bill on the ground when you're going to school. You're really good. You're like happy. Like, so your happiness points go up 50 points. You're like, "Yes, what a great day." Later on that day, you somehow lose that $100 that falls out of your pocket and you've lost it. Right. Your happiness points don't go down 50, they go down 200. &gt;&gt; 100. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; You're like, &gt;&gt; "Yeah, &gt;&gt; even though you ended the day exactly where you started, financially speaking, the pain cuts you way worse &gt;&gt; than the gain would." So people are more motivated because of the fear and it's
under represented in the marketing. So we get massive leverage when we go after it from this perspective and it's easier to train upon too. um it's really easy to train up on because if when I start teaching my my uh companies that I work with and I consult for I'm like we just got to have a conversation with your audience and we got to help them understand every pos every possible way they might say no and then just have a conversation about it. Now you know people don't want to do this Charlie because it seems like it's uncomfortable. It actually isn't but it just seems that way. But I sit down with an audience and I do this all the time. I say what would stop you from saying yes? like
what's the worst possible scenario that you're envisioning in your head right now that is preventing you from moving forward? And then we look at it and we just examine it and we see if it nets or it doesn't net. Like this isn't some grand magic trick. This is years of training in consulting and coaching to help navigate people through complex decision-making processes to help them find the decision that suits them the best. That is the selling that we're doing. And every time we do this, more often than not, it is a constraint that gets in the way. Well, I would do it, but dot dot dot. Okay. Well, let's zoom in on that dot and let's figure out if it if it's real or if it's not. &gt;&gt;
What did that process look like when you worked with Horosia on the book launch? Um, because obviously the it's it's famous $100 million in 72 hours, whatever it was. was obviously Horos is already very tapped into his market and I don't know to what degree you can discuss strategies because of non-disclosure agreements and stuff just a little bit. So if if there is a slight window into what that process looked like for for Hormone or other clients how how exactly has that gone in the past? &gt;&gt; So I consulted for Alex's last two books uh two book launches and this last one he said the following to me just off-handedly when we were talking he goes and don't worry we're going to go long
this time. So, $100 million leads, they did like a 45minute presentation and that was it. &gt;&gt; And then on this one, they did three days and the first day was a super long uh stream. Uh, and I've I've made that famous um of going super duper long uh six, seven, eight, 10, 14 hour webinars in some instances. Uh although less these days and I I'm looking for the next opportunity. Uh, but what what the value on that is and I had just had a consulting client right before this call, Charlie, that I was working in. This guy's just been smashing it. Like he's just killing it. Like I don't know 20 30 $40 million a year with a series of different webinars that he does in a business to consumer
space selling physical products. So like people think, well, I can't work in this dot dot dot, right? That that's a limitation that if you actually believe that it would prevent you from potentially having a breakthrough. Um, but I had this conversation with him specifically on this topic. I said to him, I'm like, "These are your best leads. So, you've already paid for them and even better, they've all they've already invested an hour and a half in your best material, which is your formal portion of your webinar." And I said, "They're in the best emotional state to make a decision right now." And so, why wouldn't you spend more time with your best leads in a temporary state that they're in
right now that tomorrow they won't be in that state anymore? And every emotional state has leverage. Uh and he was like, I've never thought about it that way before. Um and and this is where it gets really exciting. Like you know, Iman, it was the same thing when we doing these challenges. And it was like I will come in and spend two or three hours a day with the audience after Iman does an hour and a half formal presentation. And on a five-day challenge, this is 15 to 20 hours I will have spent with the audience purely working through whether they should buy the product or not. And so this is this is like the easiest leverage of all when you're first starting out is just to have more
conversations with your audience in these circumstances. And I like it. It suits me well, Charlie, because oneto one it feels very inefficient to me. I get bored too easy. Uh but when I have like 50 or 100 or 200 or you know Iman's case 80,000 people on at the same time, that's exciting. Like I can have 15 conversations going on simultaneously and I can get them all there over a period of time or not. But the risk is minimal. If I don't get them there, then at least I've attempted to help them. And that sincerity is they can see that and also it makes me better. It improves my ability to communicate. Um, so this is where immediately I liked what Alex did on this last launch is he went much
longer than he did on any previous launch uh what he did for a book uh perspective. Now, the launch before that, I asked Alex when he when he reached out to me because on his second book launch, he was planning to do what essentially he did on the third book launch, which was big packages, high tickets, multiple book sales. And the first question I asked him was why? I said, I just want to know the rationale behind it because &gt;&gt; I'm not saying do it or don't do it, but if you've built up all this goodwill in your brand, I just want to know why is now the time to quote unquote cash it in? because there will be a downside to this and is it acceptable that we live with this downside or
not? And so we went through and we had a long conversation on that. And then we he was like, yeah, I want to do it. Okay, makes sense. We spent six hours just on offering and positioning. We spent an hour just on the webinar itself. And then right before the launch of his second book, he texted me and he was like, oh yeah, we're just going to give the book away for free. And I was like, cool. I was like, remember the first thing I asked you? And he goes, still haunts me to this day. Right. Uh so the principle is the same. We are analyzing the downside and trying to remove as much of it as humanly possible before we really ever care about the upside. And I think that's a huge part of uh every
major launch that I'm involved in. If I can really cook in these launches, it's always about if we make it impossible to fail, then it doesn't matter what success looks like because it is it is going to make you better by buying. So how we can never truly eliminate risk. But if we put intensity around removing as much of it as possible, we can make some really good progress with it. And that's what I do for my clients that a lot of people just they still don't understand to this day. If we can remove the downside, then it really doesn't matter what the upside is. &gt;&gt; Beautiful. You you said before when it comes to webinars and and all this stuff that you've got it wrong a hundred times
before you got it right once. Um, was there a specific moment like a specific webinar in question where you thought, "Oh, I've cracked this." Was there one moment or was it was it more of an iterate iterative thing than a breakthrough? &gt;&gt; It was more iterative than breakthrough. I mean, narratively, like, if I'm going to master this social stuff, Charlie, it's got to be the one big insight that changed everything, right? But generally doesn't work that way. Uh, I will tell you the biggest initial insight that I had that really helped me out more than anything was I had this very uncomfortable feeling about webinars. I felt they were bait and switch. &gt;&gt; Come to this thing out of
the goodness of my heart. I will train you, you know, and I'm just going to give you all this value. And now that I got you here, psych, give me your credit card. Right? like it felt very smoke and mirrors like you you traded under the pretense that I'm going to train you and then the whole purpose of it was to sell you that never felt good for me. Uh so I asked myself a good question and this is a question that I found useful in every situation for every client that I work with. I say how can I make it so I can sell and also feel comfortable at the same time. Is that possible? Not oh well this is a conflict let me not do it or let me push through it even though it doesn't feel right. like
how can I make it right and still be effective? And one of the theories I came up with was just tell my audience at the beginning. And so I all the way back in 2008 came up with this hook that still is seen on the webinar space to this very day. Uh and now it's almost commonplace where at the very beginning of the webinar after the pleasantries and after the initial kind of frame is set I'll be like I have two agendas today. My first agenda is to sell you something at the end of this training. Uh and if you're the right fit for it then you should buy it. And if you're not the right fit, then I don't want you to buy it. So, I absolutely positively know that if you're the right person, buying
what I sell at the end is going to be better than not buying it. And then my second agenda is to give you the very best ever training and experience that you've ever had on the topic at hand. Okay? And then if you don't want to buy, you don't have to buy. Um, but this is my goal to give you the very best when it comes to insert topic here. and if you're the right fit, sell you a product at the end that you'll find more expensive not to own than to own. Does that sound good to you? &gt;&gt; Uh it wasn't that elegant when I first did it, but essentially I just told him I'm like, I have two agendas today. One is to give you the best training on the topic, and the second thing is to sell you a
product. And then the audience was like, okay, cool. Sounds good, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's just the ad's clear to that point. It's just like, okay, &gt;&gt; whatever. and and and and it really honed in on the creation of the webinar because I'm like if I have to create the best lesson ever heard on this subject, how do I do that? &gt;&gt; And here's what's really exciting about this. The I first ver I I I understood immediately I can't teach a broad subject because how am I going to teach the best experience on it? Like that's going to be difficult. So I have to narrow my focus and teach on very narrow subjects where even if I'm okay at teaching it, I'm still the best because nobody else
is teaching on it. Uh so it really started solving these problems, Charlie, where I'm like, how do I find that intersection between narrow enough that it has impact uh but not too narrow that it's too nichy? like what's that meaningful relationship between the right amount of narrow to solve somebody's problem that's empowering to them but allows me to better able to manage it. So earlier when you gave me the example of the weight loss I said that's too broad like I would need something more specific &gt;&gt; and we would even need something more specific than that. So I'm like how do I create the most transformative experience in 45 to 60 minutes on a topic? Generally the easiest way to do
that is to narrow the focus of the topic. Uh, so I discovered that because I'm like, if I have to pay off this promise that I'm going to give you the best lesson that you've ever had on X, Y, and Z, the number one way to do that is to narrow what that lesson is about. Now, what I've discovered is that actually helps in sales. Because when you give somebody an insight on a very local level, then you promise a global solution, they agree to it because they've had the experience of being transformed. It doesn't matter how small the transformation was in terms of topic. What matters is the transformation occurred. So then if you promise a second transformation, they're more likely to agree to it
because they've just experienced the first transformation. And so this got me really cooking. Now, it took me years to figure out exactly how to do that precisely. But that was a big aha moment for me, you know, and I went through Charlie the same thing everybody goes through is that how much do we teach versus not teach? How much do we give information? Um, do we confuse them too much, not enough? You know, like there's always that battle that you're playing with. If a, you know, if the skirt is too long, then she might not catch his eye, but if the skirt is too short, then she might get the wrong attention. So, we just need just right amount &gt;&gt; of quote unquote education and content
in order to make the webinar really, really sell well. &gt;&gt; Beautiful, man. What an elegant answer cuz you you stole the question out of my mouth. It's like, well, like, how do you figure out what to teach and what what not to teach? &gt;&gt; You you said that. Um, I've I've heard you say this, the real webinar starts when you've laid everything on the table. Um, and that's when you're sort of in the pocket in the moment. Um, what tell me when you're when you're doing these big webinars, what does that feel like in your body? &gt;&gt; Is it like are you very much in a flow? Is it like a does it feel like combat, fight or flight? Like tell me a little about the feeling of being deep in
the pocket once everything's laid on the table. It is the one of the purest feelings that I experience in my life. Like it is harmonious and it is elegant in how it shows up and then this is how I show up. Um because it's a it's an opportunity to serve and to me that is exhilarating that is exciting. Um it's not any different than when I was a monk. The whole premise of being a Hari Krishna monk was service to God and service to the servants of God. And so this is how I serve in the real world. I get to serve my market by being available to them in a way that normally isn't. I mean, Charlie, like I charge $5,000 an hour for consulting. Like, and I have a full schedule. Um, and this is an
opportunity for me to reach a mass market and give them quote unquote consulting for free in a way that makes sense for me to do it. Like, it's advantageous for me to provide it and it gives them access to something that they generally wouldn't get access to before. And I think that's really awesome. Now, if you're not like that high of stature yet in your business, just the ability to listen to somebody else and try to help them is a value that is needed more than ever in this world and is in shorter supply than ever before. So, you can be valuable to a market simply by being available emotionally to that market and just trying the best you can to help them through a difficult situation. M
beautiful. Most copywriters when they're writing webinars or scripts, they think about objections, but you think about identity. &gt;&gt; Um, and you've said that every objection comes down to this idea that someone's not adequate enough or deserving enough or capable enough. Um, at what point did you figure that out? Do you think it comes back to the trauma to what we talked about earlier or is there another nuance to to why that happens? Yeah, it like the trauma. I thought being successful in business would solve my trauma and it didn't. &gt;&gt; Yeah, me too. &gt;&gt; It's a hard lesson to learn. Uh but I picked up some really cool persuasion techniques along the way, right? Uh so I was
like, "Hey, NLP, I've heard that it's a great therapeutic protocol. It does all this change. You know, Tony Robbins is using it and he's out there doing all this stuff with it." So I like I started looking at NLP to help me fix all of these issues I had in my life and I it didn't work for me personally. Like it's hard for the doctor to operate on their own brain. Uh but I picked up from NLP this concept of identity and you know NLP is like this mismatch of psychology where like they they combine like Milton Ericson hypnosis with uh Gestalt therapy and you know they they added in modeling to it and there's some linguistics involved in it. Uh but essentially it it was really useful to me
because they would hone in on changes like who are the agents of change that can take people that have had problems that they couldn't change for years and change them in minutes. So at the fundamental root of NLP that's what it was. And one of the biggest ways that you can change somebody instantaneously is to change their identity. Um and this is how cults work by the way. This is how cults become cults is you know they make you they change your name in some instances. They make you wear different clothes, you know, and some they completely change who you're how you relate to the world. Um, so you can use it for good or or bad. But I discovered that um if you have a poor identity of who
you are and I give you a good opportunity, you will not take it because it's not in align with your identity. It doesn't matter how valuable it is. It doesn't matter how good I can explain it. Doesn't matter how much proof I have around it. If you have the identity of a person who isn't qualified and isn't worthy of that solution, you will simultaneously tell me it's the greatest solution you've ever seen. And you will not invest in it with your money or with your emotion to switch that identity. And if you do buy it, you're not likely to benefit from it because you are operating under the old identity with a new model. And the old identity will win. And so we have to really understand and
create the right identities to what we sell and dlink the wrong identities to what we sell if we really want to have uh success in this business. &gt;&gt; What are the keys to making that happen over the course of 45 minutes? &gt;&gt; It's hard. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I was going to say, man, that's tough. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So what I generally do is I remove all of the reasons that somebody could use as excuses. Um and then that opens them up for the opportunity to consider a different identity. U this is how we do it in mass. If I do it individually, it's different. Like consulting clients, it's hyperpersonalized to that individual. Um, but in in a in a market, we just remove all of the
lower parts of their identity and we we magnify all the better parts of their identity and we try to integrate them together with new considerations. Um, let me give like this is very abstract, so let's get specific on what that could look like, right? One of the favorite things that I do is I love to exaggerate their limiting beliefs because that there's two ways that you can change an identity. Um, one way is you get somebody to step into it or the other way is you remove any ability for them to hold on to their current identity. So you either try to shift them into a new identity or you make it too painful to hold on to the same identity. Uh, so one of the ways that I the more effective
way is to collapse it. &gt;&gt; So you you crush it so they can no longer hold it. Um, so you put more pain on staying the same than you do on the change. And so what I'll do is immediately at the beginning is I will take all of their limiting beliefs and I will exaggerate them. And this is something no salesperson generally likes to do, Charlie, which is insane to me because it's so effective. So when I come up to the pain section of the webinar, which is the first section I do after the the introduction, the hook, I'll take every problem they think they have and I'll try to exaggerate them. I'll be like, "Hey, listen. You don't think you have the skills in order to make this happen. And
you definitely don't have the make the money to make this happen because you're broke, right? And god forbid this concept called confidence. This is elusive to you. The only thing you're confident about is your lack of confidence. Uh your time is so limited, even though you're here on this webinar right now, but somehow you don't have any time, right? And everybody's telling you to do things that confuse you. And you're afraid that if you screw this up, that you're going to feel like a terrible, miserable failure. like I will lay it out and I will exaggerate it. And now it's very painful for them to agree and admit that that's true. They will argue with me. I'm not that bad, Jason. Are you
sure you're not that bad? Right? You're not a hopeless case. Maybe there's hope for you after all. I don't know. I'm skeptical. But I'll I'll entertain the notion that maybe there's a shred of hope for you. Right? This is the subtext of this communication. Uh so I am leveraging this identity that they're currently having and helping them understand it. Like even in that language pattern at a at a simple level, it's like you're only confident in your lack of confidence. What I've done there is actually demonstrate to them that they have the capacity to be confident &gt;&gt; and they've never thought about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The same thing with you haven't got time but you found the time to
be here. It's like it's subtle. &gt;&gt; It's very subtle. So I'm undermining the current identity and making it hard for them to hold on to it. So, it's less about changing them to a different identity. It's more about making it hard for them to hold on to the same identity. Um, and this is really, really powerful when it comes to creating an identity shift. &gt;&gt; At what point does the identity shift? Is it when the purchase happens? Um, because I can imagine you've got it's almost like it's it's kind of like you've you've got you you can play with someone's psychology for an hour or two, right? And you can completely determine the trajectory of their existence through the assimilation
of this of this new sense of self. Again, at what point does that new identity become concrete or is it more of a transition than a decision? &gt;&gt; It's a very tenuous state. Um, &gt;&gt; so the real sales happens in the product itself. And it's not cuz you're asking them for more money. You're selling transformation in the product. So the webinar pitch is just the bridge that gets them from on the outside to the inside. The real identity in mass is going to occur through the delivery of the product both in the experience and the education or whatever is being delivered in the product itself. Um and that's where the the lasting identity change can occur through the product. But we
initially have to change the identity to even accept the product and to invest time, money and energy into the product in the first place. Now again, coaching one-on-one, it's a whole different story. Like you can do energy shifts or identity shifts that can stick almost immediately. Uh you know, Tony Robbins does the firew walk where you walk across hot coals and for some people that's all it takes. One walk across hot coals and somebody's identity can completely shift. Not always um but it can it can be done in that way. So &gt;&gt; I try to create the initial shift for somebody who should buy a product but otherwise wouldn't buy a product. And this is where all the millions are really
really made at the end of the day is there's a large percentage of your market who will only buy under the right circumstances. So they're qualified to buy, they should buy. Not buying is a stupid decision on their part. They'll only be better if they buy. and for some reason they haven't bought yet. And this is where I make all my money because anybody can sell the person who wakes up in the morning and saying, "God, I wish somebody put a course in front of me, right?" Like, you're not that great when you sell that person. Uh, and you can make a million dollars doing that. Like, but if you want to make the true A tier, S tier style money, like you got to go to the market that can go either
way. That's where the all the real value is at. And so we got to initially shift the identity enough for them to be open to the idea that they could under the right circumstances achieve what they want to achieve but so far has eluded them. &gt;&gt; Beautiful. You've compared the structure of a really good webinar to like that of a comedian where there'll be like a setup and a punchline. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um where the setup can be quite long and the punch line can be like incredibly short. um how did that framework come to you and um how does how do you change the pace from setting the joke up to then making the joke and going for the kill? Like tell me a little about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's
a great question. Um and it goes back to that initial conversation around information and education. How much do we teach somebody? &gt;&gt; Um you know, people are affected more by how they feel than what they know. And what I discovered is if I'm just jamming education and information at somebody, they will feel appreciative of that information, but it won't stick in a way that will create behavioral change. Um, but if I put them in the right emotional state first, and then I give them that information, then the change is more likely to happen, and there's more impact involved. Uh, and then if I lock that in, so not only do I put them in that emotional state first and then I pay it off,
but then I tie it down, then it is likely to stay and have a lasting change as opposed to going one ear and out the other. So if we actually look at this, and it doesn't break down this way, but just for the sake of argument, let's just say this takes uh equal amount of time to set up a point, to pay off the point, and then to tie down the point. This would mean that we can only teach a third of what we used to teach because if it required to set up in a in a tie down, we literally have to teach a third of what we think we need to teach. And this is good to think like this because it means we teach less things, but the things that we teach are more important and they have more impact. Um,
and so this is getting exciting. Now, the reality of it is the setup generally will take 50% of the time. The payoff will take about 45% of the time and the tie off will take tie down will take about 5% of the time. But the setup is more important than the payoff. Just like every joke, the setup of the joke is way more important than the joke itself. Otherwise, all comedians would be like Mitch Hedber and they would just be oneliners, right? Like that can work, but it is not generally what the most iconic comedians do. They will go on these long elaborate setups to really build up the stakes. and then they reveal the insight. And so we have to set the stakes of every point that we're going
to make before we pay it off um in this format, right? Like this is super important. And so I always ask myself, what's the emotional state that is most effective for this point to be receptive? Um and this is gets fun. This is why like I love to use anger as an emotional state. So if you want to go back to shifting identities, if you put somebody in a state of anger, the energy around anger is stronger, you know, hate has more energy around it than love does unfortunately. Um, so if I can get somebody so angry and upset at their current situation, then when I show them what to do, they are more likely to do it. Um, so how do I set up this kind of situation? And I do it to an absurd level,
Charlie, that nobody else seems to do it yet, which is why I get better results, I think. Uh like when I go into a transition when I'm closing, because I I believe everything is set up payoff, tie down, like whether it's revealing an offer component or revealing a teaching moment, um I'll get them really upset. Like I'll do things of like, hey, just because you learned XYZ 1, two, and three A, B, and C, are you now more likely to be successful than you were before the before the beginning of the webinar? And everybody says yes. And then I say, doubtful. It's unlikely because I know you better than you know yourself when it comes to this, right? You'll hear a good idea, it'll excite you, and
then you'll go back to the way things were because you're stubborn and you're a habitual creature of nature. And I'm not going to let that happen. Damn it. You need me in your ear for the next eight weeks if you're truly going to take what you learned today and make it meaningfully show up in your life. So, like, I'm getting them pissed off. I'm like, I am disagreeing with them and breaking rapport in that situation. And they're like, "What the hell, Jason? You just built me all up thinking I'm going to do this." and then you crashed my parade. And that's anger. I get them frustrated at the fact that that their habits will likely interfere with them being successful and then I give them a
solution for that. Um, so like and if I'm teaching any point, I want to set it up properly. It's hard to do, Charlie. This is why like I should technically be doing this on this podcast. like we should have sat down, analyzed every beat of the podcast, thought about the salient points we were going to make with the biggest insights and then figure out how to set up each one of those points. Uh but like it's such difficult work and it takes so much effort. You have to be very precise on when you're doing it. And so we do it on webinars because there's millions and millions of dollars at stake, but we should do it everywhere. And if you analyze every great communicator, whether they know it or
not, they follow this formula. And so what's the best emotional state I can put somebody in to hear the insight? And then I give them the insight. And then lastly, we tie it down. So tying it down is now that you understand this, how does this change for you? Are you starting to see things in a new way? What are you going to do as a result of this? So we get them to think towards the future of how they'll behave differently than they currently are. And then that better locks in the insight that somebody has. Um this is how we change. &gt;&gt; My question is this is a beautiful idea. How do you pick the points like is is it a question of like my my understanding of this might be limited but I
would I would guess it's like you look at someone's life and they have A and B. A is where they are B's where they want to be and between those that gap there's obviously this problem you know the old marketing gap. Is it a question of understanding which behaviors they need to take to bridge that gap and then inserting the right piece of information that elicits that behavior and then the point is that information metaphorically wrapped and fed to them or is how how do you pick what the point is? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um I'll give you one example specifically and then I'll talk about it generally. Um so when I was doing the first launch with Iman and we went live this is day one. We weren't even
selling on day one. We we're selling on day two of this challenge and I came in late to the launch. Uh I didn't really have a chance to fully help them get the scripts right and tightened enough. Um so they went live on day one. We're live on YouTube live. Um where like the most insane people live in the comment section and the chat section. &gt;&gt; Uh and there's so much complaining. They're like this was too long. It didn't get to the point. Just a lot of general bitchery. And then I come in facing a mob of 60some thousand people generally not very happy and publicly &gt;&gt; letting everybody know about this. Right now, by the way, from a selling perspective, this is not a problem.
Right? The vocal majority are the buying minority. Real buyers move in silence, right? They're too busy deciding if they should buy or not to be writing memes in a damn chat. Uh so these are not too terribly concerning. people are going to complain regardless of whether there's a valid reason or not. But generally speaking, if we can put them in a better state, that's going to be useful to us. So this is how I do it in this instance, right? So here's the setup and then here's the payoff and then here's the tie down. So I go to the audience and I say, "Hey, listen. I want to tell you a little bit about a study that if you truly understand this, this can completely change your life." So we've
already started setting up the stakes, right? Uh years ago, Stanford did this marshmallow experiment where they put these little kids in front of marshmallows and they said, "If you eat it now, that's all you get. But if you wait 15 minutes, we'll give you two of them." And then they they watched these kids grow up through life and they tracked them and the kids that could delay gratification for just a little bit became very successful later on in life. But the kids who couldn't delay gratification did not become successful later in life. And then they asked a question, could we train this? Could we teach this? So they did another test and they took the kids that would eat the marshmallow
right away. They taught them how to delay gratification for just a little bit and then they measure their success later on in life and it turned out they were just as successful as kids that could delay gratification immediately. Right? Or delay gratification uh for a short period of time. Right? So now I've I've set it up. So I've set up the the point that I'm going to make. I do one extra little thing here. I say let me ask you a question. Your favorite movie. Think of it. Now, if you just skipped to the last five minutes and watched it, do you think it would still be your favorite movie? So, I've given them two things to consider, right? One is indirect. I didn't attack them directly. I
told them a story of delayed gratification and its impact on their life. So, I didn't go directly at them and then I went directly at them with the movie. Would it still be your favorite movie? And then I I start to bring it home. Listen, I want to get right down to it as fast as anybody does. I want the answer immediately with no effort or no work involved in it. But I've discovered in my life that if I can delay gratification just for a little bit, not forever, but just for a little bit, that serves me the best. So now I can really pay off the point. I've set it up properly. And this is where I tell the audience and saying, "Listen, when you show up in this way, you have to ask yourself a
question. Does this really serve you? Do you think that if you continue to operate this way in your life that this is going to get you the things that you want? Or do you think this is going to get in the way of what you want? And then the chat all of a sudden went from dropping L's L's L's in the chat W's www's in the chat. I guess that's when I didn't know what this L in the chat thing was, right? Completely changed the whole audience in general around. And then I said, "Okay, let's get down to business because I am here to help you do things in your life that are going to serve you better. So, let's talk about what could serve you better. And then we started listing things related to what
Iman just talked about and just completely shifted the whole 60,000 people uh a majority of them just like that. But if I would have just came to them, Charlie, and say, "Hey, listen, like success is about delaying gratification in life. And if you can't do this, you're going to be screwed. And I need you to listen to me as I tell you what you need to do in order to be successful." They would have been like, "Get out of here, old man." Right? Like, you're stupid. I'm not going to listen to you. Uh so that that's how I handled it in that particular instance because I'm always running this pattern of what how do I set up the point I'm going to make before I pay it off. Now in general this is
an easy way for most people to get started. Um just think of a grid of 4x4. So if I say I can only teach four things on this topic and I can teach nothing else other than these four things. What are these four things that I can teach? And so it doesn't matter what the topic is. If we're constrained to only think about four principles that we can teach, what are those? And then if we could only support each one of those four principles with four elements. So like point number one, I can only give four pieces of evidence to support this. What would those four pieces of evidence be? Okay, that's it. So by the way, 16 things if you think about it. That's a lot. &gt;&gt; And then how do I set up
each one of those things? That's all we have to do. U so if I said like for example like time management is really important what are four principles that are real critical for people to be successful with time management uh and and let's just say one of those elements is scheduling like you have to schedule your time with intention okay fantastic that's principle number one uh what are the four supporting elements that I can teach about scheduling uh you know and then we would walk through what that scheduling would look like we want to batch schedule tasks together that could be point number one uh point number two is we want to measure our schedule so we can adjust it over time to see how
accurately we we are in our projection versus the reality of the scheduling. Point number three and then you do this whole thing and then if we say point number one uh is batch processing then we would want to set that up. Then we'd ask ourselves how could we set up like batch processing tasks like I have consulting days Charlie where I only do consulting because then I can get into consulting flow and then I have creative days where I I do my writing and my scripting and then I have my social media days right so every day is batched. So when you get in that flow, you stick in that flow. So then how do I set that up? Uh I would start to think about a time where somebody had a related
experience that I had that they had. So it's not an unknown thing, it's a known thing. They could relate to it. Like the movie example, your favorite movie, right? Uh and then I'd say, "Let me give an example of what that looked like when they weren't batch processing." And then they'd be like, "Oh yeah, that's super costly. Oh yeah, that's really suboptimal." and now they're open to a better strategy and then I could give them what that strategy would look like. Uh so this is generally how I think about anything four by four and then how do I break that down? Generally you don't need all four points. It ends up being like three things here, two things there, four things there. And this is a
good road map. And if you practice this consciously enough, eventually you'll just think that way unconsciously. Here are the few critical elements involved. Here are the three key pieces of evidence for each uh each element. And then here's how I set each one up. Do you think this relates to organic content as well as selling? It's &gt;&gt; the same thing, right? It's just &gt;&gt; It's so related, but it's so frustrating how the differences make a big difference. The subtle slight millimeter differences and shifts make a huge difference. So, like, it's got to be more mass markety if you're going to go social and your goal is views and reach. But if you study these guys' YouTube videos, you
can see it immediately in the introduction. They set a frame. these are the six things I'm going to teach to you today or these are the four things that I'm going to teach for you today and then each one of those things is generally set up uh and it makes a point. Now when you're when you're selling it's similar the te the the the techniques you're using but the application is dramatically different. Selling somebody on consuming a piece of content &gt;&gt; is a it's different than selling somebody on buying a product at the end of the day. So, the principles are similar, but the applications, oh my god, ask me how I know because I'm still out here struggling to try to get this views.
&gt;&gt; How do you know? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean, we got 20 million views in the last 90 days. So, we're starting to crack the code. But even I laugh at that. I'm like, yeah, these are views, but like the commercial intention right now is so negligible. Um, so getting views is one thing. And then uh like you know, anybody listening right now, you want to kite views, like here's the hack. You do a listical. Here's the five things to do before 5:00 a.m., you know, first thing like boom, hydrate. Second thing, boom. And then you have a oneline banger line on each. So in 45 seconds, somebody watches the reel and they're like, "Oh my god, this is the greatest thing I've ever heard on the subject.
I've got more value per second than I've heard anywhere else." But how does that translate into somebody wanting to do business with you? They need to watch 11 more of those &gt;&gt; and then also have a problem that you can solve. It's a different game. &gt;&gt; Tough, man. It's tough. It's hard out here. &gt;&gt; The So the webinar setup that I've got in my mind so far that you've I'm sort of pulling this apart is introduction, hook, pain. What are the next sort of macro stages of the the throughput of a webinar? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So we hook them in and then we bring up the pain and then we go to the game. So this is like the greed portion. So we start with fear and then we end with greed.
Until you can until you can hope then it doesn't matter what you can hope for. So we we remove the pain as a constraint. So they're hopeless. We show we show them it doesn't have to be hopeless. And now they're entertaining the idea of what hope could look like. Now they can dare to dream when before dreaming was scary. So we talk about this. &gt;&gt; You said sorry you said you said a quote there until you can hope you have nothing to hope for. &gt;&gt; Correct. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; And that's most of the market. &gt;&gt; The market's coming in saying listen I bought 99 courses on how to make money online. I've failed 99 times. Right. My friends think I'm an idiot. My even my
significant other wants me to give it up. Nobody believes in me. I don't even believe in me. But here my dumbass is on the hundth webinar getting pitched again on another money-making opportunity. By the way, people don't think I say that on webinars. I say that on webinars, right? Like why not, right? Why do we have to make it dressed up? That's the reality of it. Now, here's where most people would stop, Charlie. They would say, and that's a bad thing. I'm like, that is a good thing. If you study every successful person who's ever existed, other than the lucky and the ultra ultra outly or talented, most of them failed 99 times before they made it their hundth time. They didn't fail 99
times. They took 99 steps towards success. &gt;&gt; No one step was successful. But if you remove any of those suh steps, then success wasn't going to occur. Um, so to me it's completely rational and it makes sense that if you have a passion and you have a desire and you want to achieve something, you keep showing up regardless of whether the past has validated if that's a good idea or not. The past is a terrible measurement of whether you're doing the right things in order to succeed or not. Right? Intention is more important and being consistent is more important. Um, so this is why I can bring it up because I've thought it further through. So, but I remove that like why is this time going
to be different? But now I've given them the ability to say, "Okay, yeah, I'm not crazy. It has been difficult, but it seems like Jason is so confident that he has a solution despite the fact that I've never succeeded before with this." And then I could lay it down. I can say, "If you're able to get through it and if you're able to fully embrace it, here's why tomorrow can be different than today." And then we talk about what the outcomes could look like. We talk about what the benefits can be. Again, I generally I like to use a frame Charlie where it says ideal outcome is this beautiful wonderful thing you dream about and that could happen. It's unlikely though. Here's a more realistic
outcome that's much smaller but more obtainable. So I give them the ability to feel that if I get lucky I could hit the out liar result but the real name of the game is a small improvement in a short period of time. That's what most people want. So we work through that and then after that we position we position ourselves and the opportunity to be the difference. Um if you want to change somebody there's two elements that can change somebody. The mindset that they have and the setting that they're in. So set and setting this is what this is called right? Uh of the two the one that has the biggest influence is change the setting. Uh changing the mindset is much harder. Changing the setting is
much easier. Um, so like theoretically the the way I always think about this, Charlie, is I can make you better at poker or we can find tables where people are worse than you are at playing poker. And that's easier to win at than making you a better poker player. So what's the least amount of change I need on your part in order to make change happen for you? And so if we change the setting, now what this means in the examples of what I do on webinars is I just change what we're solving for. So, I don't need you to make a million dollars in a year from now. I need you to make $100 a month from now. And if I can sell you on on the idea that if you can make a hundred, then the momentum will
kick in. Then the confidence will occur and then you'll know things now you didn't know before, I'm selling you a smaller outcome, but in a shorter period of time that's more obtainable. And I say, "Yeah, on the way you might accidentally do something that's atypical. You could win the lottery, but we're not using the lottery as part of our business plan." and now they're super excited. So, we're positioning it in a way to require the least amount of change on their part, but changing the settings that surround them to increase the chances of success. &gt;&gt; Let's talk about the tie downs because you you talk about this constantly in all the interviews that I've watched. You even, if I'm
not mistaken, you color code slides to visually remind you to to do the tie down. Um, tell me about cuz obviously we've talked about the setup and the payoff and and the four things. Tell me about the tie down cuz you said it's only 5% of the uh the unit of time that you have to do this. So, can you just talk about how to master that and how to get really good at it? &gt;&gt; Yeah, and this is funny because the consult I did today, we sat through the tie downs because he was like, "Jason, keep in mind this guy's doing tens of millions of dollars a year." Uh, he's like, "I know my tie-downs are very good." Uh, and I'm like, "Yeah, they were in my notes before our call. I made some notes about
the tie downs." So you I just had this conversation. It's great. So there's the major tie down which is the commitment. If I were to show you X, Y, and Z and you felt that you couldn't fail at it, then would you commit to me to do it? Yes or no. &gt;&gt; Um so you should use major commitments, at least a couple of them. Um throughout the webinar, that's like a really good setup, that style of commitment, and at the end you can do a commitment when you make a point. Now that you understand this, will you promise me that you'll never go back to the lower way of doing things before? Now that you understand this, promise me that you will never ever again use that as an excuse XYZ 1, two, and
three. And that's a major commitment tie down. Very direct, very bold. And you should use some of those. Um, so you use commitment and consistency. This is an old psychological principle. If somebody will commit to an ideal, they will behave in ways that are consistent towards it. So we want to create that commitment and then the behaviors that are good for them are the ones that they will do consistently. That's what we try to solve for. Then there are the the tie downs. And this is what I said to the client is this is the this is the thing I told him. I said, "Right now, find every tie down that you have in your webinar." And I'll define what a tie-down is in a second. And then find the
biggest gap between two tie downs. And then find a tie down in the middle of that. Then do that again. Then do that again. Then do that again. Then do that again. Right? U so a tie down is something along the lines of this makes sense, doesn't it? Yes, it does. Um, and that's it. Like, so doesn't it, wasn't it, couldn't it, won't it, don't it, can it? And then you can put that at the beginning of the sentence, and you can put that at the end of the sentence. Uh, so you're like, I could say, Charlie, this is a really good podcast going on right now, isn't it? &gt;&gt; And you're like, "Yeah, it is." Hopefully, you're like that. Like, we've covered a lot so far, haven't we? Uh, I know
somebody's going to be super successful with this podcast. I don't know who listening right now is going to go out and make a million dollars with it. It could be you. I'm not sure. or will it be you or will it be somebody else? Right? Like that's a little bit more of an advance of a tie down. Uh but the idea is bringing the concept back to the listener and getting them to agree with you. Um and and most webinars forget to put tie downs in to the point where when I train it with my guys, if they're not scripting their webinars, make a colorcoded slide that reminds you to ask for a tie down in the situation. And it could be like if that resonates with you, drop a fire emoji in the chat. Um,
and man, there's something ultra powerful about tie downs, as innocent as they sound, that make a huge difference on selling. You just got to get a bunch of little yeses and then a big yes is not that big. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Because I guess if you get someone to nod their head 50 times over the course of an hour, then by the time it gets to the end, it's just another nod, right? &gt;&gt; 100%. And that was a tie down that you just did there, by the way. bluring. &gt;&gt; Love it. &gt;&gt; You're the only You're the only marketer that an actual massive corporation like Zoom has brought in to teach their own users about webinars. &gt;&gt; What did Zoom not understand about their own product? Like
what were they getting wrong? Because that's obviously usually something that solved in house. So what was what was missing for Zoom? &gt;&gt; This is a great question because uh a lot of people will cheat themselves by not going after big whales because they'll make excuses. Well, you know, it's a billion dollar company and I'm just a little old so so and so. By the way, this is a setup. If anybody's paying attention right now, I'm setting up the point that I'm about to make, right? This is very subtle stuff. &gt;&gt; But I have no such friction, Charlie. If there's a value that can be provided in a service that can be offered, why not offer it? The worst that can happen is you learn
something you didn't know before. So, we go to Zoom and we discover that they have a serious problem. People that sign up for their webinar accounts and don't run webinars don't keep those accounts. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Naturally. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, it makes &gt;&gt; the point. There's the point. There's &gt;&gt; It's pretty obvious, but everything's obvious in hindsight, right? So, we said to the tie down. &gt;&gt; If we train your users on creating webinars and increase the likelihood of them doing webinars, couldn't that be a really good thing for you? And that's a tie, by the way. That's a yes question. Uh, and they're like, "Yeah, that would be great." To the point where we literally told
them, "Charlie, and wouldn't it be okay, if we solicited them to write the webinars for them, because whether they created or we created for them, if they have a webinar that they're running, isn't it more likely they're going to stay on Zoom?" And they said, "That makes sense." So, not only did I get to train Zoom users, but I also got to pitch them. Um, and that's awesome. And so I think so many of us make this mistake of like really big companies not approaching them. Bigger companies have bigger problems. They have more problems and they have bigger problems. And so small people that can focus single-mindedly on solving a problem for a big company is more valuable than another bigger
company trying to solve that big company's problems. And so yeah, I'm I am not shy, Charlie, about if I see I can provide value, attempting to assert myself in a situation where that value can be provided. &gt;&gt; I love it. So Jason, you've said that live webinars almost always beat pre-recorded webinars. Now, the majority of people choose pre-recorded because it scales, but usually because they're lazy. Um, can you make an honest case for me as to why the the math maths there and why you think that that live is always going to trump pre-recorded? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's I'm all for any webinar being better than no webinar. So, if somebody comes to me and says, "Jason, like the only way I can
do this is with an automated, we ship automated." Um, and if we want to start with automated and add a live in later, fantastic. We can totally do that. Um, usually it works better the other way. You go live initially and then you automate it later once you get the kinks out of it. Um, but live will generally be automated for the same reason that a Super Bowl is better than the recording of the Super Bowl. You know, it's just &gt;&gt; there is a time and place that is being shared that will never occur again and it's organic, meaning that it's unfolding in real time and a recording can never capture that. Now, on a practical level, there's just techniques you can do on a recording that you
can do live for point of sale. There are techniques you can do on a recording that are better than there are live, but the techniques you can do live generally have stronger persuasive powers when it comes to straight up conversion rate. So, for example, one of my favorite closes that I use is I put a big red slide and it says delete from recording and then when I get to that slide, I pause for like five seconds. And then I say, you may wonder why I paused right there and why you see the slide that you see on the screen. It's because what I'm about to say next will be forever deleted from the recording. This is only available for you because you're here live with us right now, right here.
And I want to reward you for being live. And that's the setup, right? So it is you can't do that on an automated webinar. Uh you just can't. Uh, you can't do long Q&amp;A sessions, which is my favorite part of the webinar where I just, hey, listen, you said no. Let me figure out why. Okay. Should you still say no or should you buy now? Oh, you're still saying no. Well, let me ask you again. Oh, now should you say no? Right? Like doing that. You can't do that uh on an automated. Now, you could do a hybrid webinar where the first part is automated, then you come in live at the end. That is awesome. That works incredibly well. Uh but live just has the ability to do interactive things and to
utilize scarcity in a way that automated doesn't. Now automated has more scaling capabilities but live has more conversion capabilities. So my best clients they run automated like nine 10 months of the year and then they do one or two big live events for the year and they get the best of both worlds. So we should use all of the tools in the toolkit if we can. What's something that is like a a widely taught webinar trick that you just think is fundamentally wrong? Like what is something that you believe what is something that you just believe to be so wrong that everybody else believes to be right about webinars? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that this is people find out that you can teach nothing
on a webinar and convert really well. It's true. You can, right? If your webinar is merely like, "Oh, you have a headache. Let me hit you over the head with a mallet and then let me sell you an aspirin." Right? Like that can convert. It can do really well. And then if you try to use some more effective techniques, but you misuse them, you don't apply them correctly, you will convert less. And then you will conclude, "People are stupid. I can't teach them anything. I won't teach them anything. I'll get them all dressed up and then sell them a ticket on where to go. And I think that that is not a good strategy long term. So I am of the attitude of let me teach the right amount of information.
So in some webinars that is like a threestep approach and then in other webinars like I have a webinar running right now that teaches 15 steps and everybody would tell you that's impossible. Um but in this particular set of circumstances it makes sense. So I don't try to limit myself by what we teach or what we don't teach. I look at the situation and say what is the most that we can teach to have the effective change required. And generally it's a few key elements and we teach them deeply but we don't try to rob the audience of an experience that is valuable for them independent of whether they buy or not. So, my number one thing I saw for Charlie is at the end of the day if the worst thing
that happens is you leave saying, "Damn, I'm so glad I spent time with Flavet on that webinar. It was amazing and I didn't buy." Um, I'm super happy. This is why generally my webinar frame is I'll show you how to do it for free and then I'll give you an option to pay for a way to do it instead. But even if you can't afford to pay for it or you don't want to pay for it or you're scared to pay for it, I will give you a way to do it for free. So I I allow people to choose and then that's awesome because they can truly weigh the cost of each. Yeah, this is free. Like so my webinar on webinars, I I have each step of the process. I give them an AI prompt. So 15 steps, 15 AI prompts. Uh and I teach
them how to write their own AI prompts. This is the one that I use. It works for me, but ideally I would love for you to use it and adjust it to you. And I give them prompt hygiene. Okay, so 15 prompts. I show them the prompts. I don't get into the technical details of the prompts, but they could screenshot every prompt. They could upload every prompt into chat GPT. They could manage all that prompts. They could work through that whole process. And if they were broke or if they were a beginner or they were cheap son of a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] then they could totally do that, right? &gt;&gt; Or at the end when I say, listen, this was only 15 prompts. I actually have more prompts for each scenario
because there's five different ways that I open a webinar. There's three different ways that I do pain. There's four different ways that I do gain. I'll give you all my prompts. They will come easily loaded so you can use them. And I will also give you some other things that we didn't have time to talk about in this webinar. And then most people they say I would rather pay to have it handd delivered to me than to go out and do it all on my own. But if you want to do it on on your own, you totally can. &gt;&gt; Uh and that's my favorite webinar style. I will literally I will not sacrifice the model that I teach. It will be useful and complete on its own. And then you have to decide whether
you want to invest time and your own resources to do it or whether you want to invest money and less of your time and less of your own resources in order to do it. &gt;&gt; You've got a lot of big names behind you. So, you know, Russell Brunson publicly credits you with teaching him webinars. Alex Horoszi, I gaji, Larry King, Tony Robbins. At what point did you realize like I am actually the best in the world at this? &gt;&gt; Too late, man. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you know, the the cobbler's kids don't have shoes, right? The barber's kids have long hair. Like, it's like I don't know if that one works, but I had a plumber come over to the house one time because these cartridges in our shower,
like one broke, then the next broke, then the next broke, and it started shooting out water, and they needed to fix it. And I'm like, "Why does this keep happening?" And he's like, "Well, you have hard water and these things only last this long before they need to be replaced." And he says, "I know it, cuz I need to replace my own cartridges in my home, but I'm too busy replacing yours to to fix my own." And I'm like, "That's it. I'm too busy marketing other people than to market myself." So, it took me too long to recognize the impact that I had because I didn't really teach webinars. It was a side project for me. People would beg me to teach it, so I'd, you know, go out and talk about it.
But we were teaching people how to do Amazon and we were teaching people how to use WordPress and we were teaching people a variety of other things that were more useful than teaching people how to do webinars uh for the masses. And so it finally dawned on me one day that the number one thing people kept coming back to me for was at the end of the day the thing that had the biggest impact on their lives was webinars. And I was about five years too late to then formally like claim the space and own it to the public. But obviously if you know you know, right? So, I've been able to work with some of the biggest names out there. And I discounted the own value, Charlie, that webinars provide uh
to the world. My attitude was like, "Nobody's going to want to learn how to do these webinars. There's too many moving parts. It's too hard. Let's just teach them how to sell product on Amazon instead." And for a period of time, that made sense. But technology caught up. Like, it's easier than ever to make slides. It's easier than ever to source and research information. It's easier than ever to to reach people. uh and more people need more help and they're more likely to actually attend webinars today than ever before. Um so it makes sense that this is why I've become more in demand every year than the previous year. &gt;&gt; I think it's interesting we're a very interesting intersection
where live selling is about to take an absolute like it's about to go big because of AI and we'll talk about that towards the end. But what's a mistake that a massive company, $50 million company makes that a beginner doing it in a scrappy way doesn't? Like what what's the beginner's advantage here compared to the big boys? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I have a client, they're doing about 60 to 70 million a year right now, &gt;&gt; but they're so entrenched in their their methodology and their process that it's pulling teeth to try to break them out of it. Uh, and part of the reason why is because they're so good at it &gt;&gt; that they kick out ideas that are foreign to that model. &gt;&gt; And I'm
like, I'm like, guys, you could be very good at this one particular thing, but you are a novice at this other thing. And so, you can't take in your thinking over here and apply it over there. Uh, and you know, we're we're making headway. Uh, and I I don't mind because they the hours build out the same whether it takes them 20 hours to learn it or an hour to learn it, right? Like I'm getting paid either way. Uh, but personally, &gt;&gt; you almost want them to to to to to take a while. &gt;&gt; Part of me is like the dentist giving the kid the lollipop. It's like, you'll be back with a cavity right now. It's uh I I really truly personally want them to succeed, but it's frustrating because
every idea that I'm putting in there, they kick out because it clashes against a model that they know is effective. Uh, and and that model is effective in that circumstances, but now it's reaching diminishing returns. like they've they've they've picked the fruit off that tree and that tree doesn't grow fruit back faster than they can pick it. So now we have to plant new trees that bear other fruit and we can pick those fruit and that fruit might not taste as good and it might not be as plentiful but if you want to grow you need that tree and if you have enough different trees then you can exponentialize and all that other kind of stuff, right? So, a beginner has no biases towards what
success looks like and they're more agile in their ability to adjust for success. They're also more relatable to the beginning portion of the market. Like, it is very difficult for me, Charlie, to relate to anybody that struggles with money problems because that is a distant past for me personally that I haven't dealt with in 20 years almost, right? Um, I am not very relatable in the sense that if I have a large team and I've worked with major clients that I can reach somebody at the beginning of their career and they can resonate with me. I have to work extra hard to bridge that gap and I have to be intentional about it. But somebody just starting off, that's who they are at their core. And
so that's a huge leverage point that they have that we don't have anymore. Now we have leverage that they don't have. So there's neither good nor bad. But a beginner is hungry. Like if I was a beginner at the AI stage, Charlie, I would have figured out some amazing solution by now. That would be printing. But because, you know, I'm not that hungry to have to learn a new technique. Oh my god, AI. Like Jesus Christ, I don't want to learn this stuff. I'm being drugged into the AI arena trying to figure it out. But if I was young and I was hungry, I'd have been staying up all day and all night. I mean, Charlie, I don't know what your career was like, but when I started, like, I didn't go out
with women. Like, I didn't have a dating life and I didn't have much of a social life and I locked myself in a room until success became the only viable option. &gt;&gt; Jason, I I didn't know what a woman was in the first two years of business. I couldn't have pointed one out in a crowd. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. Right. Like, what's this foreign alien species doing around here? Uh, yeah. So, &gt;&gt; and why is she smiling at me? What does that mean? I'm scared right now. I need an adult. Help me. So, it's like I have three kids. I have a wife, right? And I have existing uh &gt;&gt; commitments that I can't escue. &gt;&gt; So, somebody who's young and dangerous doesn't have any of those
things or even old and dangerous, right? It doesn't matter. Age doesn't really matter. It's just there is opportunity in every single situation. I love it. So, let's talk about this future because I we got to wrap up shortly here. But first of all, your hat says use brain. Is that a reminder to yourself in the mirror or is that a company you're wearin thing? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a funny story. So, when I first met my wife, my wife's Romanian. Uh her English is really good, but it's not her native tongue. And so, she would say to the kids when they would do something silly like, you know, they'd come out in the morning for school with their shirts inside out as kids are wanting to do. She'd be
like, "Use braid." And I'm like, man, this is a cool saying, use brain. So, we started using it to point things out that were obvious that we make we all make mistakes. These are like cognitive biases that we all have. Uh, and it's it's it's wonderful how the brain is simultaneously the greatest computer in the world, but programmatically will do stupid things all the time unless you account for them and train against them. So then it became use brain became a positive effect. So when somebody did something good, you use brain. Fantastic. Uh, and then the joke just became, it became really serious. So I, my company is now used brain. I'm writing a book. It isn't published yet. We have the
cover designed for it. You want to make a reality, make a cover for it first. So this is not the final version of it, but it's use brain. A guy sawing off the limb of the tree that he's sitting on. This is most of what we do on an ongoing basis. So to me I think success is about doing less stupid things than it is about doing more genius things. So my premise in business for this uh next decade is we subtract all the ways you can't fail. We focus on the few things that will bring success and then we leverage the hell out of those things. And so using brain is using the best portions of your brain. And if you do that, you can do genius stuff, but unless you do it intentionally, you probably
will fail miserably because like some of the ways that the brain gets in uh in your way is it can't process a lot of input simultaneously. Like this is what we talk about on webinars, right? Like we can't teach too much because God forbid you try to help somebody. If you help them too much, you hurt them, right? So the brain has this issue where it can't handle too much information all at once. So it will generally value the information that it has in its head &gt;&gt; even if that information doesn't serve them. &gt;&gt; So we can't focus on too many things. We have more things than ever to focus on. So we had to remove &gt;&gt; all of these things that can cloud our judgment and then we'll
just make better judgment. Like Charlie, like if we took the phone out of the hands of the average person who spends six to eight hours a day staring at it and we didn't give them any strategy, we said instead of staring at the phone, you will stare at the wall. That person will be more successful. Even if I don't teach them anything else to do because we've removed things that harm them. So staring at a wall will unlock creativity. Boredom is one of the greatest ways to become creative. Like as kids when we were bored, we would come up with games that we would manifest out of thin air and turn into reality. So if I didn't add anything new to your life, if I merely subtracted what you didn't
need, I will improve you. This is so powerful as a concept to me. So when we make offers, we subtract risk before we do anything else. And that is the number one successful reason why an offer will sell. If you can't fail at it, you can only succeed, you will buy a 100% of the time. And so this is that whole process. And the brain doesn't handle negation. The brain doesn't work that way. The brain can't see the invisible. So we have to bring consciousness to it. So the used brain, the whole premise of it is if we can remove the ways in which you can fail, then success is inevitable. So that's the whole idea. I love it. &gt;&gt; I'm writing the book. It's good. &gt;&gt; I like it. I like it.
The AI thing is really interesting because obviously you know AI can now write a webinar script in 3 minutes, right? Does that scare you, excite you, bore you? Do you roll your eyes at it? Like what what do you think is the future of webinars with this with this AI? You know, &gt;&gt; I love it because AI is an itch that the more you scratch it, the more you itch. So attempt to write a webinar with AI and the likelihood that it will almost get you there but not quite is super high. And then that agitation will allow you to go to Amazon and be like, "Let me buy this book called One to Many from Jason because then I'll learn how to do it correctly." And then AI will assist me when I get stuck.
AI is fantastic at untangling knots, but it is terrible at tying the knots in the first place. Uh, and so, and I don't think it'll change for the next 10 to 15 years, Charlie. Um, there's this concept called the last mile, and the last mile is always the hardest. So, Amazon could almost do two-day free shipping to anywhere in the US. Almost, but not in most places that are remote or rural. uh fiber optic internet took forever before we all had it because that last mile to wire it up to most houses you just couldn't get that last mile was a thousand times more expensive than any mile that laid before it. So LLMs are close to being sufficient but that last mile is going to be very difficult.
So, I don't think we're going to see any major improvement significantly in LLMs in a long time. Now, there's other AI components that maybe can do other things, too, but I think they generally only favor people that are already competent at the skill. Um, and that's exciting to me because those competent people will increase my demand to multiply that competency. So, I see the future being very positive. &gt;&gt; Beautiful. I have a this is an interesting sort of slightly far-filled question. I know we're too over the hour here. Have you got a bit more time or have you got a beautiful When your career is over and someone sits down to write your Wikipedia page, what would you want the second
sentence to say? Not the first because obviously everyone leads with the, you know, the the the the $250 million webinar man. Like the second sentence, what would you want that to say? &gt;&gt; That is a fantastic question. I have never really thought of it before, but like I just want to have the biggest impact that I can have on the world. So like he impacted millions of people and I don't even know how yet because I'm sure how I do it in the next 20 years will be different than the last 20. But impact is the number one motivator for me to get out of bed in the morning. Like if I can go to a market and help them get the value that has previously eluded them, that just makes me so excited.
This is why like social media now is so big for me. In the past, I looked at it incorrectly. I'm like, man, social media is a terrible place. It is, by the way. It's like I don't think social media is a we don't our kids, we don't allow them to use it. They don't have any screen time pretty much at all uh in our household. And I don't either. I do 20 minutes a day. That's it. Um but if you want to reach people, you have to go to where they're at. And if you can go into hell and pull people out of it, then you have to pretty worth doing. &gt;&gt; I'm starting to realize it is. Yes. So like this is the way we can impact. So if we can have a dinner with 2.5 million people, that's just the
beginning. I'm starting to get very excited with the future. But impact is very very elusive Charlie because it's like I said earlier like I might have to touch somebody 20 30 40 50 times &gt;&gt; before they even want to take the next step. &gt;&gt; In the past that was impossible that was prohibitively expensive and the technology didn't allow it unless you were already a Fortune 500 company. And so now I do have the ability to to touch somebody 11 12 15 20 30 40 times. So what's changing in my calculus is in the past I would only work with people who are ready to go deep and then we would go deep immediately and this is how you could sell hundreds of millions of dollars of product. It's
not a bad thing. Uh but now I have to touch people superficially. So I have to do the things that I used to roll my eyes at and put my nose down on. And I'm like, if that's the name of the game, if step one is just making them aware of my existence, and step two is being superficial for a long period of time, but then always standing next to the door that says, "When you're ready to go deep, we're going to open up this door." Then that's just the new game. And hey, listen, my attitude is this. If I commit to something, I can truly become the very best or if not one of the best at it. Doesn't matter what it is. Um, you know, barring like professional sports or, you know, quantity, &gt;&gt; I
was gonna say PVA would give you PVA would give you a run for its money. &gt;&gt; It would totally Yeah. And every year my knees remind me that I can do less and less physically than the year before. So, uh, but intellectual sports and for most people this is true because these don't push up into the laws of physics like physical things do. Um, I am confident that give me 10 years in an obsession over the thing and I will become unbeatable at it. And so I I'm very excited to see where this is going to lead us to because we will invent a thing that doesn't exist yet that we don't even know we need to invent. It's inevitable. Uh, so in my Wikipedia entry, it's something along the lines of how
much impact that I've had on a large amount of people. So I have depth and I have breadth. &gt;&gt; What's the best webinar you've ever seen that wasn't one of yours? Great question. Hilariously enough, Charlie, I don't really watch anybody anybody's webinars. &gt;&gt; You're like Johnny Depp, man, not watching his own movies. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean, clients will have me watch their webinars uh to critique and give feedback to them. Um, so I'm sure that there's some amazing ones out there that I don't recall right now. to reframe it then in terms of webinars that you've written um not necessarily the one that's made the most money or is the most notorious or has has been the most successful
which is the one that has just felt the best to make and has just made you feel the best and you look at it and you think that's the one that makes me feel good. So, um, I'll tell you the pitches that most inspired me were not webinars. First of all, if we're answering the question from earlier, Dan Kennedy had this presentation called magnetic that he sold this magnetic marketing program for. And it was at these old success events that were in person &gt;&gt; uh that he would do the platform selling on. And I got a recording of that. This is back in the iPod days, like the first level of iPod. I'd put my iPod uh headphones in, I'd go to sleep at night. And I had that pitch memorized at one
point in time and then I saw Phil Town do a pitch on investing uh at a live event and that thing was unbelievable. I saw it then I went back next year and saw it again and the second time I went back and I wrote every note of everything that he was doing in a notebook while he was doing the presentation. Uh and that was like a complete ah just a game changer for me. Um so yeah, those are it. Now, as far as as far as the presentations that I've done, hilariously enough, one of my favorite presentations ever is one that did not convert very well at all. Um, it was for Zig Ziggler. So, Kevin Harrington, who was like an original Shark Tank member, um, an OG Shark Tank guy, and you know, he was
the guy that discovered Billy Mazize, ran infomercials, but wait, there's more was essentially his company coined this. Uh Kevin came to me and hired me to pitch for Zig Ziggler because Zig Ziggler was a huge influence on him and it was a huge influence on me. Before I did webinars, I read Zig Ziggler's book and I was like this is the best thing on selling I've ever learned in my life. Had such an impact on me. Um so I write a webinar and we have the rights to sell. The book that I read from Zigg was called the secrets of closing the sale. They had the box course version of it and you know Kevin had created it with the IP and everything and then I went out and I pitched it. So I wrote the
webinar and I delivered the webinar. Uh and I worked harder at that webinar than I do for most webinars and it did okay. Nobody lost money on it but nobody really made a lot of money on it either. Um, and you know, it was a hard lesson that I learned like making decisions emotionally not a very smart idea because like we didn't really sit there and think about it. Should we test this first before going all in on it? Probably a good idea. Like is the market in search of this type of material because Zigg's material is it's it's dated. Like it's great, but the market doesn't want something that doesn't immediately impact the market. It was in between two different markets. Like all this was
obvious in hindsight, but um the technical capabilities of that pitch or what I did because it was so important to me is still one of my favorite pitches to this very day. And it was so fascinating because literally the consulting client that I had on right before this call, he said, "Jason, I went and I reviewed that Zig Ziggler pitch that you did." He goes, "Because I work with this guy who was like a vitamin guru, one of the best vitamin guys in the entire world, and he passed away a couple years ago." And he goes, "I felt uncomfortable selling him and positioning him." And he goes, "But the way you position Zigg," he goes, "I pretty much used that word for word." And for the last couple
of years, this thing has just made me millions and millions of dollars. This was an oh, by the way, at the end of our consulting time. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Oh, and there's more. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I was like, "But wait, there's more." And I was like, "Dang, I didn't know that. Awesome. I want to clip that." So, yeah, that was like technically the best webinar I ever wrote. And it got me fired uh because they're like &gt;&gt; they're like, "We're not going to launch this again with you." They brought it in-house. It didn't convert at all. They hired somebody else. Nobody could beat my very mediocre performance on that webinar. &gt;&gt; I love it. This is an interesting question. What's a question
that no interviewer has ever asked you that you've always wanted to answer? &gt;&gt; That's a good one. which really just if you invert it is basically what's something that you've always wanted to say on an interview or say in a in a public setting that you've just never really felt like has been necessary because no one's &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's that's a tough one, Charlie, because I am so open with &gt;&gt; transparent. Very transparent, right? So, I kind of go wherever wherever I've went. There's very few stones, if any, that haven't been unturned in my career. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I'm very happy with acknowledging all of my limitations and all the stupid things that I've done in my life,
which are vast. They they they are way longer than the list of genius things that I've done. But yeah, I mean, I just I never used to talk about my spirituality or my my being a monk, Charlie, because I was like I didn't think anybody would care. Um, and it was a different part of my life. But now I've realized that this is super important. I never talked about rapping either for many years because I'm like, man, this is sounds stupid. like nobody's going to believe this. It just sounds so ridiculous. And then I find out later like half my audience seems to have wrapped in their career. I don't know like at what point in time this is not as weird as it sounds. &gt;&gt; I love it, man. No,
it's it's a difficult question to answer after two hours of of talking. So I understand that. Could you use could you use uh do you think the webinar structure would work to sell B2B software? Yeah, I mean that's where I started really making some serious money was selling B2B software. Like a large part of Russell's webinar for Clickfunnels was based on &gt;&gt; the model of webinar that I taught and that was you know a hund00 million plus company selling software. Now it's not like enterprise level software but we sold enterprise level software on a webinar too. The structure changes slightly. This is what I say to most of my clients. So, I'm like, "Your your very best version of what you
offer in 90 minutes, where does it exist?" And 99% of clients are like, "It doesn't exist." I'm like, "Is that a good idea?" And they're like, "What do you mean?" And I'm like, "Well, the webinar is a deep dive into representing the best 90 minutes of what you can do for somebody. And don't you think in any way, shape, or form if that thing exists, it's better to have it than to not have it?" So, it could be automated, it could be live, it could be a book a call funnel, it could be a direct cart, it doesn't matter. Most people don't have a 90minute presentation that best shows who they can help the most. And that's a tragedy &gt;&gt; going from a BTOC webinar because I feel like when we talk
about webinars, we generally we we sit in the sphere of it being B to C most of the time. Do you find there's a a big difference in in the framework? Because obviously when it's B2B, you know, people tend to be less emotional, more logical. Perhaps they are more like I suppose it's they're still consumers, right? But how do you navigate that switch to a B2B webinar as opposed to a BTOC webinar? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I really don't. Um, it's not a fundamental belief of mine, Charlie, that they're less emotional, um, or that they're more rational or to me, every market just has a set of inputs and outputs and I have to know what those inputs and outputs are and then I solve for those. So, I don't
really put stereotypes on those markets. I just say, okay, if this market makes decisions in this way, then I have to put what I'm doing in a framework that allows the decision to be made in the way that the consumer makes the decision. Um and every market has some biases. So there's general psychology that applies almost universally and then there's a specific ways in which you apply it that will make the difference from market to market. Um so for example successful people if I'm selling to them uh they generally prefer to be direct and straight to the point and there needs to be less concern about emotion in terms of how how it makes you feel. Okay. So here's a simple rubric in order to
think about this. a beginner, they need more encouragement and they need more empathy. Like they're struggling. They're in a situation where they're on the fringe. They could quit at any time. And so I got to sit down there with them and sit with them and be like, "Hey, listen. This is tough and you're going to be okay." Right? So we have to spend a lot more time around the stress of the situation. Business people I can be much more direct and challenging towards. In general, I can say, "Hey, listen. If you want to just make $20 million a year and you think that's all you have in you, then let's just do 20. But I don't know, man. If a tree only grows 20 feet when it could grow 50, what do we
call that? They're like, I'll show you, you son of a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] You know, here's my money, right? Like um so so but that's I don't think in terms of businesses versus non-b businessinesses. I I holistically analyze the market and say it responds in this fashion, so let me communicate to it in the fashion in which it responds to. So I I take a more general approach than categorizing them in specific markets. I never think in B2B or B TOC quite honestly. I say this particular market has these ways that they think and let me communicate it to them in that way. &gt;&gt; Really interesting. The final question I have for you Jason is what was the topic of discussion for the 2.5 million
person dinner. &gt;&gt; So that's a great one. I love that. Okay. So it it involves Iman. Believe me. &gt;&gt; We're ending how we started. You know, I've got there's got to be a sandwich here. So, &gt;&gt; I like that. So, we go out to eat one night. My wife, I uh two of my three kids, we drop the the oldest off to her first high school dance. And we go off to a pretty nice restaurant in in LA. And my wife gets this idea to my youngest daughter. She's 12. She says, "U, you're going to order food for everybody." So, we tell her what we all want. Like, I want this, my wife wants this, my son wants this. And so, she places the order for the table. So, the waiter goes over, comes to us, and she
tells them what everybody wants, and she's even trying to pronounce an Italian restaurant, and it's very Italian, like like everybody there is Italian, actually. &gt;&gt; You've even got your hands like this just to just to &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. I like that you caught that. Uh, and so she gives him the order and he's like really impressed. And he's like, "This is awesome. This is great." Uh, and then when when they're done, I start to explain to her why we had her do that. Um, so I I told her, I go, I have this client in Dubai, and this is this is Iman. And it's really cool when Iman does this. Whenever we go out, Iman will order for the whole table most of the time. So we're out at a nice
restaurant, and he'll generally he'll go to the waiter, and he'll be like, um, get us this, get us this, get us that, get us that, get us this, this, this, this, and this. Uh, and then he says, and if you want anything else, you can you can also order it. So it's not like a control thing. The comments were like, "That's not leadership. That's control. That's manipulation." I'm like, "God, people make snap judgments. It's fun." Um, but uh he does that for the group and it's a really cool demonstration of an experience that you can provide. So, I'm explaining this to our kids because we're trying to empower our kids um so they can go out and be successful on their own and not rely on us
because I'm not going to create entitlement. So, I'm explaining this to her on camera. So, we now take a little camera with us. We film like five or 10 or 15 minutes of our dinner. That's it. And we're just having this conversation where I said, "I have this client in Dubai that he orders for everybody at the table." And he knows I'm a vegetarian. And so because of that, he makes sure to order vegetarian things for me. So ahead of time, they're preparing so that they're able to accommodate and show that they can take care of the people around them. So I'm I'm telling her this and the camera's only facing me. She's on the other side of the camera. They edited it down a little bit because she
wasn't quite getting it. She was like, "Is it this? Is it this?" I'm like, "No, it's a leadership thing. It demonstrates the quality of a leadership. And then I end it telling her, explaining to her, the reason Summer, we're having you do this now is because when I try to do this for clients and I'm a full-g grown adult, it feels weird and uncomfortable and unnatural and potentially unsafe. But you get to do it at the age of 12 in front of your family. So when it comes time later to do it in the real world, in business, you can nail it. And that's that's the real. And it's shortened and it's edited down and it's pretty punchy. It's way more eloquent than how I did it here, but it was a raw
explanation to a child of why we had her order the dinner to empower her to grow as a life skill later on in life. And you know, we use these clippers and all this stuff. Now, Charlie, every time that thing is clipped and published on any platform, um, it goes viral. It's crazy. on any any account that publishes in any platform and you know viral like it'll do it'll do 50,000 views 100,000 views 150 sometimes 200 sometimes 500,000 views and it's rare because what we're experiencing uh and I'd love to trade notes with you sometime on what you're learn what you know about social because we don't know that much but we're learning is we find some content will do well only on a specific platform
so it will do well on IG but it will die on Facebook it will never take off on Tik Tok but YouTube shorts it will kite um and but very rarely does it perform across the platform and very rarely if you re-edit it and publish it again will it perform. This thing has been clipped, it's been shipped, it's been published across multiple platforms and it will probably end up with over 5 million views &gt;&gt; uh easily um by the time we've squeezed all the juice out of it. And it's it's just a a silly dinner conversation, you know. I mean, it's not silly and it's taken far out of context from what we're teaching it. But the idea here is I am trying to empower my daughter to be able to have the
skills and capabilities. So when she's successful later on in life, you know, these are the bricks that build up to that success. &gt;&gt; And people get a spy on that. I think they find that useful. But how I do I don't know why things &gt;&gt; well perhaps it speaks to the um the the collective unconscious idea that a lot of girls don't have good father figures or a lot of women aren't leaders these days like all of these everything goes viral for a reason and usually because it in invokes some sort of emotion like I realized this with with short form platforms is &gt;&gt; in first principle what you're doing is you're scrolling through emotions like if you look at any viral short form
video, it makes you feel some sort of way. So you're you're like anger, happy, sad, curious, like resentful, doubtful, angry, anxious, and it's like and you're just scrolling through emotional states. So I guess there it's probably some inspiration or there might be someone that feels anger towards it because they didn't have that as a kid. &gt;&gt; I don't know. But Jason, what an absolute pleasure this has been. Where can people find you and how can they buy from you? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so follow me on Instagram. We're just really trying to push that platform out. I I think I've got about 50,000 followers right now. Let's go, baby. And then &gt;&gt; you nearly said subscribers, man. This guy
has 20 minutes of um &gt;&gt; I &gt;&gt; 20 minutes of views. &gt;&gt; I have I'm having challenges, but I'm learning the book is the the best thing. $10 on Kindle to a million dollar lesson. &gt;&gt; Yeah. One to many. Folks, go and um go and buy it now. Jason, I would shake your hand if Zoom allowed it or Riverside allowed it. Thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Oh, my pleasure, Charlie. Thank you for having me.