Today I want to share with you five very unspoken and non-obvious content rules that I've followed for the last 10 years that are almost guaranteed to grow your brand and business. And by the way, the only reason I know any of these rules is because I've been making content consistently for 10 years since 2016. And so I didn't get here by luck. I got here with brute force and an awful lot of trial and error. So, whatever problems that you think you're encountering with content, whatever struggles, setbacks, pains that you're experiencing in relation to your content and personal brand, I have also gone through those. And by following these rules, it is 100% going to fix whatever problem you're encountering. Rule number one is what I like to call the Dave Ramsey effect. And this is that you need to be making content that is loweffort and high impact. If you know Dave Ramsey's content, you know that his entire content strategy is to pick up the phone and be of service to his dream client. And so he's creating content or creating an awful lot of content in a way that requires zero preparation from his parties purely on his zone of genius. So he's an expert in that area that is capable of doing that type of content. It, I would imagine, puts him into a flow state. It shows him being of service to his dream clients that will then do business with him. and it positions him as an authority. And so he's able to do something at a volume higher than every single other person who's preparing for their content, writing scripts, ideulating ideas, because all he needs to do is show up and do what he does best. So for you with your content strategy, you need to find a way to create content that is lower effort and higher impact. Meaning that you need to do less and it will achieve more. See, most of you creating content right now, myself included, are probably putting a huge amount of effort up front in order to perform our best when we eventually get into content. Meaning that we're writing scripts. We're generating ideas. We're maybe doing dot points like I am or preparing about what we're going to say. We're trying to be of service. But the issue is we're never going to be able to beat someone who is just skipping all of those steps and being of service. And so if you can find a content format that requires little upfront effort, but shows you in your maximum zone of genius being of service to your dream clients, you're going to end up with a format that is low effort and massively high impact. And so although it sounds counterintuitive, your dream content strategy would require zero upfront effort. Meaning that you have to do nothing before you show up and create the content, before you show up on camera and do your thing. There is zero preparation required beyond just understanding what the purpose of what you're about to say or what you're about to do or who you're about to serve is. Number two is it would be a content strategy that puts you into your zone of genius. And this would eventually become the moat behind your content strategy. And so there's very few people that can compete with you if you're really deeply truly in your zone of genius. And so to figure out what this would be for you, you need to find something that you're already doing. Whether it's serving your clients, whether it's helping people in person, maybe you run live classes, or you're a personal trainer who works with people in the gym, or you're an artist who creates art, what is the stuff that you already do that puts you into your zone of genius that would be impossible for anyone else to compete with? And how can you then turn that into content? And so, none of the content that I produce on Instagram requires any upfront effort. There's not a single script that was written. Nothing is pre-planned. It is all me being of service to my clients, recording the process and then sending it directly to my editors. There is no effort on my part except for obviously the zone of genius required to serve my clients. The third thing is you want a content strategy that effortlessly drops you into a flow state. And you do that by creating content that shows you being of service. See, the issue with content creation, this process like I'm doing right now, is yes, I'm trying to help you, and my primary focus is to be of service, but at the end of the day, I'm also conscious of the YouTube algorithm. I'm also conscious of the title and thumbnail idea we had before. So, I need to validate that at the beginning of the video. I'm also conscious of the thing that I wanted to portray and the reason I'm trying to portray it in relation to my business. There's so many external factors that are playing along in my mind as I'm trying to record this video. And so it's quite difficult to drop into a flow state. Sometimes it happens when I'm creating YouTube videos. Sometimes you guys probably notice it. I start to rant and the clips get a little bit longer without cuts and that begins to happen naturally. But most of the time that's quite difficult to do when the content is pre-thought because there's too many external factors pulling you in each different direction where as soon as you are just being of service. As soon as I'm on a call with a student and I'm looking at their face and the camera is behind the teleprompter showing me. So, all I am seeing is their face and all I'm trying to do in that moment is help them solve a problem. I'm not thinking about content. I'm not thinking about where this is going to slot into my strategy. I'm not thinking about how this is going to convert new people into my business. I'm not thinking about the title or the thumbnail or the hook or the idea. I'm just trying to be of service. And when I'm trying to be of service, then I effortlessly drop into a flow state. I had an experience just recently where we have inside time to build, we have an ondemand asynchronous one-on-one support channel where basically anyone can drop their problem, their question, their landing page, their template, their product, their offer structure, whatever it is, they'll drop it into this channel and I get back to it within I we say 72 hours, but I try to get back to everyone within 24 to 48 hours. And so every now and again I make one of these and I'm a little bit too worried that I was a little bit too honest. And so just last week I went out to my fianceé McKilly and I told her, "Hey, I've just recorded a loom video for one of my students and I'm a little bit worried it's a bit too mean. Would you mind coming and watching it?" And so I come back in after McKilly's watched the video and she turns to me and goes, "Tom, I've never seen you in a flow state like that before." It struck her so much because she's so used to watching my content, watching my lessons, watching the things that I do that's kind of scripted and thought out or not scripted, but there's dot points, there's thoughts, there's a plan. And this was just a piece of content where I was genuinely just trying to help someone. And immediately it shocked her. And the point is because I wasn't thinking about content. I wasn't thinking about the title. I wasn't thinking about the thumbnail. I was just focused on helping. Number four is it speaks directly to your dream client. This is where the magic of the Dave Ramsey effect comes so beautifully into play. It's because Dave Ramsey is picking up the phone and who's he speaking to on these calls that then go into being content. He's speaking to families in America that need help with saving and investing, the exact people that he is helping with his business. And so by serving people that are his dream customers, he's then creating marketing material that will bring in more people that can potentially become customers in his business. And so the perfect type of content for you would be you helping your dream customer, speaking directly to your dream customer and then broadcasting that out into the world and showing you that you're an expert. Which brings me on to the last point is it needs to show you as an authority. Again, we want a content strategy that puts us in a light that shows we are capable of solving the problems that our business solves. And so again with Dave Ramsey, he solves these people's problems so beautifully that you get to the end and you go, "Well, I need help with that. I'd rather just pay than learn how to do it myself." And the same can go with your content strategy where you could show yourself helping your dream client. And because you are doing that and broadcasting it out publicly, other people might go, "Hey, I really respect what Stacy's doing here. I think she could help with my problem. I'd rather just pay her to do it than try to do it myself." And if you can do that enough, you end up in a situation where you're essentially every single time you show up online, you're being authentic because it's real content of you actually helping people, but you're also being an authority and bringing people into your business. And so my content that I broadcast on Instagram is me just genuinely helping my dream customers or my actual customers and by proxy broadcasting content that would be appreciated by my future dream customers. And so what this looks like in reality is on the horizontal axis we have progress and this is the impact your content is making. How much actual business impact, progress, audience growth, whatever it's making. On the vertical we have value and we have effort. Now, in the beginning when you've just started, you do not possess the knowledge, the experience, the wisdom in order to create loweffort content that relies on your zone of genius. And so, you are going to have to start much higher when it comes to effort. But the issue is because you've just started, you're also going to be very low in terms of progress. And so, you're going to be putting an awful lot of effort in and achieving not much. And your graph is going to look something like this where as you gain skill acquisition you gain more progress and your effort decreases. But then with value in the beginning again your value is going to be really low because you've just started. But over time it's going to increase and eventually overlap with effort. And this zone, I guess in the beginning over here, if I can pull up my highlighter, this zone is what I would call the grind zone. This is where you are putting a lot of effort into all your content. It doesn't really feel like it's working. You're having to script your YouTube videos. You're having to have dot points for everything you say. You're having to worry about the hook and everything that you do. everything's kind of manicured and manipulated into being what you need it to be to create the result that you need. But eventually, if you can just continue continue to develop your skill set, continue to create more content, continue to improve yourself, improve your knowledge, hone in your zone of genius over time, you can get yourself to this zone, which I would describe as the impact zone. This is where you can lower the amount of effort you're putting into each piece of content you make. Increase the volume of that content. But because your zone of genius, your knowledge, your impact, your wisdom is increasing, so too is that content increasing. Even Alex Hozi is starting to do this now with the Humozi Highlights channel. Most of those clips are from Q&As's in person with his dream clients. And so he's now well and truly into the impact zone where he can make a huge amount of content because the effort for each of those pieces of content is low. Now for most of you, you just need to focus on getting to this section here. And that might take you two years, three years, four years. Or maybe you have a wealth of experience already and you just need to find that format for content that, like I said, requires zero upfront effort, puts you into your zone of genius, and creates a moat around your business, effortlessly drops you into a flow state by you being of service, speaks directly to your dream client, and shows you as an authority. And hey, by the way, if you want my help growing your personal brand, but then turning that personal brand into a profitable knowledge business that could make you $20,000 a month, I would love to have you join Time to Build. It's 200 bucks a month. You can cancel anytime, and we have a 90-day money back guarantee. If you join Run a Lean Launch, which is our system to launch a version 1.0 of your offer, and you don't make $2,000 in the first 90 days, we'll pay you back every dollar you spent. So, it's pretty much my offer to give you free money or a 100% refund and 90 days of free coaching. I don't know why you haven't taken this opportunity yet. It's a pretty [ __ ] good deal. There'll be a link in the description and I'd love to have you there. Rule number two is that the audience knows all. This is the idea that inevitably your audience sees through the facade that you're putting up in your content. And so I was speaking to a group of coaches this morning on a guest workshop that I was hosting. And a lot of these coaches are obviously business coaches. And so they help other people create business. And they do that by bringing people in and mentoring those people to grow their businesses. And inevitably when your content is the main driver of business success, so you making content then gets new people into your business, there is a certain element of neediness that is going to inevitably come through in your content because maybe last month sales were down and so last month sales were down and so this month you know you need to make better and more content in order to increase sales. Well, the issue is that neediness is going to poke through in your content. Whether unconsciously or consciously, you are going to act in a way that feels a little bit more needy. You're going to do things in a way that comes across a little bit less like you're trying to actually serve and more like you're trying to create a result. The reason why this is so crucial to understand is because content creation primarily is about giving. Your job first and foremost is to give value. And if you can give enough value, then people will give their time and their traffic in return and eventually their money. And so I know people talk about like don't give everything away for free. You need to hold some stuff back. All of that jazz. This is not what I'm talking about. I'm talking from an energy perspective. If you are focused primarily every single time you show up on camera on being of service, then that experience that your customers have on the other side of the screen when they're looking at their phone watching your content and they genuinely feel like you are just trying to help them, then they going to trust you so much more. Whereas if you are unconsciously or consciously worried about how today's content is going to impact sales tomorrow or how this Instagram video or this Instagram carousel is going out because it needs to drive traffic to your website so you can get more sales by the end of the month because you've got bills to pay and rent is due and your car payment's due and all of these different things. The more needy you are in terms of why you're making content, the more that experience is going to come through. And so if you're only making content because you need sales or because you need views or maybe just because you need reputation, you need to be famous, you need to people to acknowledge you. The issue is your audience will feel that through your presence on camera because the unconscious energy you bring into your content is always going to be felt on the other side of the screen. Whereas if you can genuinely get yourself to a place where you are just trying to be of service, where every single time you show up for a YouTube video, you are genuinely trying to help people. Every single time you show up on a call, every single time you show up in a FaceTime video, every single time you do anything online, if you are genuinely trying to be of service, number one, your content will perform better. I know people talk about retention hacks and all the hooks and the things that you can do, open and close a loop and all this [ __ ] that people talk about, but at the end of the day, content creation is creating a promise and then delivering on that promise. And so, if you are promising to be of service and then you are genuinely being of service in your content, guess what? People are going to watch more of your videos because when they watch them, they trust that you're actually trying to help. And I know life costs money and I know we're all trying to run a business. And I know that content is a big driver of business success. So it's incredibly difficult to disassociate those two, the business results you get from content with genuinely trying to help people. But try to understand that by being of service, you will get more business results because people will trust you more. They'll watch more of your content. You'll get more views. You'll get more engagement. Everything will increase because the energy you bring to content is so much more positive. Rule number three is the 603010 rule and that is that 10% of your content will be incredible. 30% of your content will be eh kind of [ __ ] but not that bad. We phoned it in for the day. And 60% of your content will be so bad that you never want to do it again. But the catch is you don't get to enjoy the 10 until you embrace the other 90%. There is an incredible statistic that I love to bring up in content and that is that Pablo Picasso produced an estimated 14,990 paintings in his lifetime. But you and I know him because of maybe five 0.001% if that of his work is the entire reason anyone knows his name. And so if you have this idea that you're going to set a PB and create the best piece of content you've ever produced and it's going to get the best results you've ever gotten every single time you make content, it's going to be a hard thing to maintain. Whereas if you just embrace this idea that, hey, you know what? I wanted a 1 out of 10 today. I wanted a 10enter, but I got a 30enter today. And that's okay. Or sometimes when you make a 60enter, that feels awful. It was really unenjoyable to make. it didn't go smooth and it was kind of a [ __ ] fight to get it over the line. That's also serving a purpose. That is also contributing to the entire body of work that will one day represent the impact that you make. Do you really think that an Alex Samozi is producing incredible work every single time he makes content? Do you really think a Tony Robbins is producing incredible stuff every single time he makes anything? Do you really think a Mel Robbins or a Tim Ferrris or all of these prolific creators that have produced an enormous body of work, do you really think they're hyperfixated on every single thing being perfect? And maybe they are hyperfixated, but do you really think that they don't make stuff every now and again and go, "That was garbage." Yes, of course they do. So, embrace this fact that 10% of your work will be incredible. 30% of your work will be eh? 60% of your work will be so [ __ ] that you never want to do it again, but you only get to enjoy that 10% by embracing the other 90%. Rule number four, always focus on quantity. Fixating at all on perfection is a waste of your [ __ ] time. There is this push back I constantly get from people who say that you should be focused on quality. Quality matters. It's about quality. Quantity, not quantity. What these people are mistaking is that perfectionism or perfect is a zero- sum game. The better that you get at something, the further away perfect becomes. And so, when I first started creating content, what I'm doing right now, I would have seen as perfect. But because I've now been making 10 years of content, I now see this as very imperfect. And my idea of perfect is 100 km down the road in that direction. And so if I was focused on perfection, my idea of perfect would have gotten further away from me faster than I was able to develop my skills. And so there is zero reason to ever focus on perfection. Whereas if you focus on quantity, a magic thing starts to happen. You start to produce imperfect work that other people see as perfect. See, your goal as a content creator isn't to produce perfect content. It's to produce really imperfect content and have other people view it as perfection. My content is imperfect execution that you guys think is perfect. You guys see the visuals of this and the setup and having this planned and the things that I'm saying and my articulation and you think it's perfect. In my mind, it's imperfect execution because I've focused so diligently on producing such enormous quantity of content that now my imperfection is what other people would see in themselves as perfection. Focusing on perfect, focusing on quality is a zero sum game. You're never going to get there. Whereas focusing on quantity will always yield incredible results. You need to make more content than feels possible or necessary. You need to make such a huge quantity of content that it would be unreasonable for you to not achieve the results that you want. And this is especially true for some of you who might be new. Some of you who are brand new to this might think that it would be more suitable to spend your time making a better script or coming up with a better idea or perfecting your camera settings or perfecting your camera quality before you make a piece of content. But the issue is no matter how much time you spend on that content, you are not yet capable of producing good work. So your idea of perfect is still garbage. You'd be better off, and I'm sorry if that's a bit honest, but you would be better off just making more content than the time that someone else spends perfecting a script that is going to be garbage because they don't know how to write a good script. You would be so much better off making more content in that time. You would be so much better off producing 100 YouTube videos this year than you would producing 10. And not because volume is the secret, but because skill acquisition is the secret. The people who succeed are not producing three videos a week. That's not the secret source. It's not that more volume of content is the strategy. It's that the people who are the most skilled, the people who are the best, the people who are the most prolific are the ones who win usually. And almost 100% of the time, the people who have succeeded are the ones who have produced so much work that yeah, it makes sense. You look at their Instagram, they've got a million followers, but then you look at the amount of posts they've made and it says 2 and a half thousand. And you're like, "Okay, yeah, no [ __ ] This person's posted 2 and a half thousand times. It makes sense that they've succeeded." And so it's not quality, it's not quantity, it's skill. And you only get to skill by producing quantity of work. And so overindex on volume. And when you focus on quantity, I want you to focus on areas that yield the best long-term skill acquisition. What do I mean by that? Instead of scripting every word, focus on creating videos off the cuff. It is not possible for you to write a script in the time that I could just turn the camera on, speak my mind for 20 minutes, and have that be a video because I've perfected the skill of talking off the cuff in my videos. So the point is you need to focus on skill acquisition and you do that through a volume of content and so don't script because it means you'll be better off the cuff. Don't overedit because you'll have to become more charismatic on camera. Don't do things in the short term that shield you from long-term skill acquisition. And rule number five is in your content you are selling certainty. There is no shortage of people online that are willing to sit there and tell you about how to write better hooks or write better scripts or have better packaging, create better titles, create better thumbnails, have a better short form YouTube strategy. There is no shortage of people that are going to share systems and templates and tactics and hacks and ways that you can kind of jumpstart your career by using some specific system. But all of those things forget the foundational truth of content creation. And that is that you are creating a promise and then you are delivering on that promise. And so in this very video at the beginning I made you the promise of rules that you can follow to improve your content. And if I hadn't have paid off that promise, you wouldn't still be here watching right now. So retention is about a promise and a payoff, not some [ __ ] engagement tactic. You are not going to build an audience of people who know, like, and trust you if you are using engagement systems. If you are hacking them into watching your videos, if you are tricking them into getting to the end of the video by promising a payoff at the beginning of something that's going to happen at the end, you are going to build an audience who know, like, and trust you. If you create a promise and then you deliver on that promise, if you say something in your title like I did of five rules that you can follow to grow your brand and business, and then I pay that off by giving you five rules that will grow your brand and business. It's as simple as that. Content creation in its simplest sense is not an algorithm. It's just you delivering a promise to other human beings. And if you can rip it down to that foundational principle of you create a title and thumbnail that delivers or promises an outcome and then you deliver that outcome in your video or in your short form videos, your hook is here. I'm going to teach you this thing in the next 30 seconds. And then in the next 30 seconds, you teach that thing. You will have so much more engagement on your content because you'll build an audience of people who trust that when you promise something, you deliver on that promise. Consuming the content of these people that are talking about engagement tactics and hacks to grow the algorithm and and viral strategies and trends and all these things that really genuinely don't matter nor make any kind of impact. And focus on that foundational principle of when I make content, I am selling someone's certainty. the content or watching the content is what you're trying to sell that person and the promise you make at the beginning and your ability to deliver on that promise is the outcome you are delivering to someone when they choose to watch your video and continue till the end of the video. That's it. That's the entire process of creating content. And if you can worry less about the flashy stuff, if you can worry less about editing, if you can worry less about your titles and your thumbnails and all of the things that you think are going to make the biggest impact and you just focus on that, make a promise. deliver on that promise by actually giving people what they expected, then you're going to have a great audience of people who go, "Hey, this Tom guy actually delivers what he says at the start of the video." I hope this video helps and I'll see you in the next