I managed to write for like 433 odd different niches, markets, and industries. There was a collagen supplement company in uh Germany and they had four launches prior, but every time they did a launch, they would lose about €200,000 every single time. And this is where the creative strategy comes in. Like we got off the call, they're like, "We're launching in 2 weeks. It's in German. How quickly can you get the copy done?" So I had to write the copy within 3 days, have it translated to German, have it to the graphic designer, have it ready with the products and shipped out in that time period. That company that I worked with in Germany, they sold for 165 million. Not bad at all. But to be fair, that is what an original copywriter was. We were creative strategists at the very beginning. Most people don't even think about this. Creative strategy was part of copywriting because it's knowing how to pivot and use different angles and how to use different strategies for an audience. If you really want to have a great idea of what a good creative strategist is, David Oglevie is like the number one person that comes to mind. Well, he's a copywriter. No, he's a creative strategist because if you look at what he does, he comes up with ideas and then pitches the idea and then has his department create [music] the idea. He is the definition of a creative strategist. I remember talking to a few of my friends where they were like, "Yeah, dude. If you stop selling to marketers and just start selling to regular people, you will make way more money." Marketers know all the tricks, so you now need to pull out new tricks and new secrets and new things that they haven't seen before. Whereas selling to an everyday person who has never seen this [ __ ] They're like, "Holy [ __ ] this is like magic. What are you doing? This is so incredible." Think about how easy that is. The stuff that we do on hard mode is easy for us on ecom. If you were told to write a [music] 30 email welcome sequence or a 30 email sequence for info, that's hard. 30 emails for like econ. That's like those emails could literally be one page. Hey, thanks so much for joining our mailing list. We'll be sending you some really cool stuff. In the meantime, have a look at this, including stories. Go buy our product if you really like it. Take care. Thanks. Bye. One of your guys, Pepe, I was I was helping him out. He started using emails for his client. They were making 8,000 a month on emails. After he entered the conversation, just did a couple [music] of tweaks, they made $80,000 afterwards. >> Not bad. >> It's so easy. It's soing easy. >> All right, so I'm here with a man who needs no introduction, Adela. How you doing, man? >> Hey. Hey. Thanks for having me. I'm back on, man. >> Look at us sipping our our drinks over here. >> So, we're talking about credit strategy. be talking about how to how to scale brands, how to make a lot of money. I know we've been talking about a lot of the stuff privately um with my private u you know copyrightiting mentees and just showing them the ropes of like how to yeah do do what we do. But I thought let's have another conversation and put it on YouTube and and share the stuff that people need to hear because you know creative strategy for many people they think it's this like new thing where everybody's kind of like oh you know create a strategy but that's what copyriters originally did years and years ago like creative strategy is is just a new name for something that we've been doing for a very long time. I mean you've been a copyriter for you've been writing copy for like what two decades >> 24 years 24 years. Yeah. >> Yeah. long ass time. Um, but so it's kind of interesting because whenever I hear the term creative strategy, it's people used it as a way of masking what the term copywriter is because again the last conversation we had last year, which is also ironically funny that I was in Asia, you were in Africa. Now I'm in Africa and you're in Asia. So we're actually recording this just with the humor of it all. Um, but what we actually discussed last year was like how I don't really see a lot of copywriters being able to hold up the title of copywriter from like the old school because of course they they kind of lost their way. They only like focus on one area instead of the entire thing. And creative strategy is the same thing. Creative strategy was part of copywriting like the original part because it's knowing how to pivot and use different angles and how to use different strategies for an audience. Like for instance, if and we were talking about this right before we jumped on. If you are using a supplement company, for instance, a supplement company that is using the exact same hook, angle, ideiation, and um marketplace, they're all saying the same thing, trying to sell the same product at the same time. How do you stand out? And people are like, "Oh, it's the story I'm telling." I'm like, "Yeah, you're telling the same story, but yeah, you're running the same Like for instance, how many times have you heard the whole I was ridiculously fat. I had an embarrassing moment. It made me feel really sad. So I went through this entire process, came out the other side, now I have these diet pills that basically is secretly discovered that is going to do X, Y, and Z with scientific terms, and now you can buy loads of them. Like how which ad am I describing right now? >> You couldn't tell me cuz like there's like 50 of them that this [laughter] could Yeah. They all apply to the same story. >> Yeah. So the story is one thing but it's knowing how to actually differentiate between all of them. So for instance it's not so much um and this is where the creative strategy comes in. You look at the creative itself like what is the story? What is the hook? What is the angle? What is the audience listening to? What part of the market are we not speaking to? So if everyone is all about weight loss and they're like well I was fat and disgusting. I want to be hot and sexy. >> Well instead of doing that look at it from a different angle. for instance, especially with your target demographic. Um, cuz not all ages are the same, not all body types are the same. >> So, um, you can target down onto the ectomorph, endomorph, messomorph body types, which is quite simply have you, uh, if you're the type person that no matter what you do, no matter what you eat, your body stays forever skinny and it annoys you because you can't build muscle. And this is and you end up in a term called skinny fat. because you're skinny fat, this is how it impacts you and this is how your life is different. And then you talk to that demographic specifically, but you don't do the same thing. You find where else they're feeling it. For instance, is it affecting their confidence on dates? Is it affecting their confidence in the gym? Are they being uh bullied because they they look all tall and gangly? Are they not is there how do I put this? Do they not have that deep powerful resonant resonance and confidence that is projected because they don't feel comfortable in their body because they feel so skinny? And you can actually talk about this in the copy and say, well, all of these issues are solved by understanding that you have a skinnier body type and to get that body into shape, you need to activate this thing that gets you over the line and it's the thing we're selling you. >> Yeah. >> And that's how you move it forward. So that's how you look at it as okay, that's the creative aspect. Now the strategy is how do I put that message in front of the right people? You can be like, well, I'm going to buy ads. I'll do this. I'll do that. Well, everyone else is doing that. Look at the marketplaces that aren't being spoken to. And we used to have this idea. I don't hear it often as much anymore, but it does exist. Who in your audience, like what other hobbies do they have that you can show up in? For instance, if they're skinny, like going into the skinny fat person who wants to get in shape, what's their martial art? Are they weightlifting? Are they a runner? Are they into yoga? Do they do pilateses? Are they a Comic-Con geek? Are they a video game nerd? Are they an anime fan? And you start looking at those different areas that you can target them in because they're not they're not being targeted in those areas. M >> so when you go to that marketplace that's a whole different demographic of people that actually hit that same um that hit that same audience. So you go to that place and you talk about what it is now you end up with a fresh place where there's where they're not expecting it. So, if everyone's running it on Meta and Instagram, um, and then what you're, you know, specifically targeting this kind of person, if you hit them up at an anime convention or at a yoga studio or even if it is through Meta or any of the other ad platforms, but it's specifically talking about it on their interests for yoga or for anime or for video games or for whatever it is, you massively stand out. Like, you literally hit them in places they're not expecting. M >> and this basically gives you a differentiation and that differentiation helps over. The other one that we can do is you can rent lists. People don't think about this anymore. You can rent a list from someone who is for instance if they're in the dating market. I've got massive dating niche list. You know this that the other. Great. Well, that list needs to know how to make money. So, how about you pitch my make money offer to that list? Or you know what? I've made loads of money but I'm lost in love. Great. I'm lost in love and I've got money but my health is absolutely [ __ ] Okay. My health is absolutely wonderful. My relationship is great, but I don't know how to make money. I I know how to make money. My health is really good, but my dating life is absolutely [ __ ] Do you see how it constantly plays off each other? And there's a myriad of different ways you could play this. Most people don't even think about this. >> I've seen like a lot of copyriters, now you know, creative strategists, just use the right name for them. Um, you know, I've seen all these creative strategists, um, they they do split tests or like they do variations on the hook, but they're approaching it from like a copyrightiting standpoint. So, for example, like, hey, if you're struggling with this thing, here's what would happen if you take this thing for 30 days. Let's just say for example, that sentence, they will be like, okay, how do I create a variation? Try this for 30 days and see what happens to your body. Like, it's the same hook though. It's just like re they just rewrite the words to to describe that hook. But what you're saying is like completely different frame. It's like okay, how do we call out that that audience that's not being spoken to that that really wants to buy this and like how do we actually focus on the actual niche or avatar, you know, whatever the word is that you're using as your as a marketer. >> How do we call them out? And that's kind of more of what you're looking at at the beginning of the process. And that that seems to check that that um checks out with all the people I've talked to that uh making like 50 60k a month with creative strategy just for what it's worth, you know? Um is like all the guys I'm talking to, they always focus on like variable testing with like um the avatar call outs like how do we talk to the right person in the ads and actually optimize them? And then of course the strategy part that comes into that is like >> Yeah, as you were saying. Yeah. But yeah, I just thought that was interesting because it's not about the hook and rewriting the words. >> It's really about how do you actually figure out the person that you're talking to and actually talk to people that aren't being talked to. >> Exactly. I'll give you guys an example that I can talk about because a case study I have which is um there was a supplement a collagen supplement company in uh Germany which is doing absolutely fan fucktantastically right now. Like I'm actually impressed at how like since they sold the company and they still retained some level of ownership, but it was launched by two copyriters. Um, essentially what it did was they did the launch and they had four launches prior, but every time they did a launch with the same hook, angle and copy with variations of what it was, they would lose about €200,000 every single time. So like the first launch did 900,000 and second launch did 700,000 third launch did like 500,000 fourth launch did like 300,000 and they were like okay we need to find a new way of selling to them. So again this is creative strategy in play while I was having the conversation with them with my writing partner in Germany cuz again I don't speak German but the copy was in German. It was basically understanding how can you translate that over and we'll touch upon different audience spaces as well and what you can do because this is something that most people don't do and it's something you can look into. Um essentially what we did was like while we were speaking to them all I said was your demographic and like it's women between 45 and 55 years old and uh this is what it was like okay let me just have a look at something. I quickly looked at the type of collagen they were producing because it's like it wasn't like run-of-the-mill. They actually had testing service. They really put in the time, effort, and capital into finding a good collagen supplement and provider. So, it was very above board the way they were doing their testing. [snorts] And what I found was what they were what they were creating as a collagen supplement actually affected women who are going through pmenopause and menopause. And then you realize, oh [ __ ] Okay, the average human starts losing about 1.5% of collagen every year after they're 25. >> Okay, so that's insane to begin with, but why is it the me men don't lose as much collagen and we age differently to women? Well, because when women go through pmenopause and menopause, they start going from a 1.5% like loss per year to five or 6% a year of collagen loss, the reserves. So that's hugely different. So of course, their body's not producing as much. Yeah, >> that affects them in a multitude of different ways. And having more collagen supplements actually helps them go through the hot flashes and or hot flashes, if you will, and all the other like the hot and cold, the itchy skin, all the other stuff that happens is all down to collagen and skin elasticity. So, we just rewrote the entire hook and angle specifically targeted to women who are going through u menopause and permenopause. >> Now, the audience wasn't segmented cuz we had like 20% of that audience was men. So, yes, we did burn some of that list. I will put my hands up. We could have done better, but at the same time, and some women wrote back going, "This is way too on the nose. How dare you?" Blah, blah, blah. Great. But it resulted to like €700,000 uh in sales or €710,000 in sales. So, we got the second highest like launch day for them. And we did it inside a 10day window. So, we didn't even have that much time to actually put this together. Like, we got off the call, they're like, "We're launching in 2 weeks. It's in German. How quickly can you get the copy done?" So, I had to write the copy within 3 days, have it translated to German, have it to the graphic designer, have it ready with the products and shipped out in that time period. Had we had a little bit more time, I think we could have done better. But, you know, not not a bad result. But what I'm getting at here is look at how we identified who the target demographic was and what was not being spoken about our product. What is it that we were solving that our product wasn't speaking about? And then you put that front and center. And that's how you find a creative strategy. So think about that. It's it's really easy to do. And there's things with languages because again, Matt, you speak how many languages? I think that like you're a polygot, so you speak a few. >> It's dwindling every year because I'm not practicing. But >> but it's five. Yeah, it's five. >> Yeah, cuz I remember when we were in Spain and I was like, dude's just busting out the Spanish like it's nothing. >> Yeah, it's cool. I I uh I enjoyed it. It was what I was doing in my teens before copyrighting is learning languages. So languages are powerful. But here's where something like just as an idea for people. If you're a creative strategist right now and you have a client product who's again facing a lot of uh competition in that marketplace because what it is, >> try marketing the same product in a different language because not everyone speaks English as their first language. >> Yeah. >> So translate it over and you might see your results go through the roof. Spanish is a great one, by the way, and so is Italian. Um, I remember years ago, and this is like it's no no longer the case because people cottoned on to it, but it's still heavily underserved. Um, first it was Italian. I remember there were three super affiliates I knew who were in Italy who were like killing it because they were like, "We have zero other products in Italy and we only have like five products to promote." So, we were just taking everything, translating over to Italian and selling it to our audience. The second was a bunch of guys in in Brazil. They were taking like massive copywriting courses and advertising courses and then just translating them over into Brazilian Portuguese, writing the sales copy in Brazilian Portuguese and then they were just selling that stuff as a licency to the original. So they would send the original owner a license agreement to be like, "Hey, can you come in and actually help us and do whatever it is, but it's all in Brazilian. It's all in Brazilian Portuguese." So they were basically just selling millions of dollars based on being able to license this product and then ship it into a different language. I mean I'm doing this right now with one of my own and I think you were just about to jump in and say what you where your mind was going with this. >> Yeah, there's a there's a brand I was chatting to in Dubai recently and um they're in another market that doesn't speak English as well and their CPA is so much lower. It's like cra it's it's way lower. They're getting such a great deal there. They're making so much money in this other market and I don't think it really matters where that is, you know? Like I could share it, but they're they're like big brand and stuff, but like they're they've tapped into like a very specific niche. Um they found a separate audience. It's all translated into that language and they're making a crap ton of money. And I just think that um yeah, that like if you look into this kind of thing, this is also the stuff that strategists would think about. It's like even thinking about it and and like cons considering it is I mean it's kind of like you're basically a you're basically like a marketing director without being a manager I guess you could say right it's like it's like copyriter here I mean the new definition like writer assistant basically um then you have like creative strategist is somebody that does the management and you have somebody that does like the media buying and then that those people have let's say like editors and stuff that like complement And then you have like marketing director that runs that whole department. But that the marketing director could essentially do most of those things, right? So it's like that's the ascension path is like you're basically doing what the marketing >> director would do without um >> doing management, you know, and even the marketing director could just delegate that to a project manager or a marketing manager or something >> and basically just be a creative strategist. like the guy I was chatting with um so and so made multi8 figures was chatting with him and I was chatting with the CMO and I asked the CMO what do you do on a day-to-day basis because it's a pretty impressive operation and he's like yeah um I write copy and I was like okay so you're a copywriter he's like yeah yeah we're copyriters I'm like oh yeah okay so he's a copywriter and I was like so then how do you run the business the marketing side of the business because you're always writing copy it's difficult to be in both headspaces, you know. He's like, "Yeah, no. I just have um a manager, marketing manager. They run the whole like execution. I just say, "Here's what we want to do." I go and write the copy and then the manager runs that whole department that actually sets it up. But he just basically does all the creative strategy. Let's call it that. You know, he just does all the creative strategy and they produce I don't know 30 or $50 million a year profit. It's not bad. >> Not bad at all. I mean like the so if >> if you really want to have a great idea of what a good creator strategist is or who a great creator strategist strategist is uh in real life David Oglevie is like the number one person that comes to mind >> but the number two if you're looking at fiction is Don Draper who was based on David Oglevie like Don Draper is like from Madman he is the definition of a creative strategist well he's a copywriter no he's a creative strategist just because if you look at what he does, he comes up with ideas and then pitches the idea and then has his department create the idea. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> That's the level up you got to go with. Now, I call that a profit finder as well. Like if cuz there's a multitude of different hats you can wear and you and I have discussed this because I like to run around. I'm basically the the quote from the Joker is I'm a dog chasing cars. I just love I love it for the game. Like literally, it's just for the game that I love it. But I feel like a lot of people don't they're looking at it for just the money and they never see beyond and that's the reason they're stuck in the way they're they're doing things. If you go beyond those things and really look at what's happening outside of it, outside that scope, you will have far more fun with it and you'll actually make a lot more money as well as consequence because you'll actually see things differently. you become more useful as well for different companies because they can't fire you because they're like, "Hold on, this is the person who came up with a strategy, understood the copy, helped us do the execution, helped us understand the execution, and really kind of knows everything that goes on together and how it works hand in hand. >> Yeah, they're invaluable to us." >> So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. Yeah, I think that this is a really good point because many creative strategists right now that are doing creative strategy work, they have like a certain defined scope every week of stuff that they're doing and it's like most of it's um just with ad variations, let's say on meta and they're doing like different concepts and different variations and they're briefing editors. That's the current scope. But if you've been in the copyrightiting world for 5 to 10 years or more, cycles change and the scope and the actual workflows change and as tools evolve and things change, like this is not going to be the same workflow forever. Like right now, that's that's the workflow many creative strategists have. But if you just say, "No, that's all I do is like you know what what um Adeline Matthew are talking about. It's not really as as relevant to like the thing I'm doing." It's like, yeah, but bro, you're in the trenches of this very very very specific workflow and it's working, but if you want to take a step back and be like a holistic holistically good at marketing in general, so that as this this workflow evolves and changes a little bit, it's easy to adjust. Like I mean, I can talk from my own experience, you know, I um I started mostly in info, right? And I was coaching I was doing um copy writing copy for coaches in info doing a lot of email marketing a lot of short form like social stuff organic um YouTube YouTube titles as well YouTube descriptions. Kind of funny that now I've got my own YouTube channel when one of the first things I was doing was writing YouTube titles. But um you know I uh I did a lot of that that sort of info stuff and a lot of business coaching stuff and I um yeah just sure enough that skill transferred because but the workflow changed like it used to be like that. Then I went freelance and when I went freelance my workflow completely changed. The way I I managed everything was different. The way I reported was different. The way I led the relationship with clients changed. Then I went from being just a freelancer at like six figures to coaching people multi6 figures like as a freelancer and then also multi6 figures from coaching like at the same time. Um workflow changed to be at multi6 figures and then all my coaching mentees started essentially like solving so many problems that I kind of learned all their workflows and it like the workflow just keeps changing. Like I don't think I've had the same workflow for more than 6 months in my career. And I think for many people that's very um that's very difficult, right? Because it's like you spend so many years learning this skill. And there's I know a lot of people they're very like >> I think you and I are a little bit morea like we kind of don't mind chaos. Like as the chaos comes it's like yeah whatever I can I can flow with that chaos. But there are some people that are a lot more process driven and they like this rigidity and they create a false sense of certainty for themselves by relying on this workflow and system and it just kind of stays the same and then it's like this is what's happened with a lot of the email copyriters in our space. They're still like, >> "No, I'm a list manager, you know, that's all I do." And it's like, bro, people are not hiring list managers, man. Like, go Google it. If you Google on >> if you search on Twitter hiring or X hiring a list manager, you get a couple of old job descriptions, couple here and there. If you search looking for creative strategist, you'll get like 30 from the last two weeks. So, you could just look at the data and it's like, well, why is the rigidity why is that person still doing list managements? because they're not flexible with their workflow. But I think it's deeper. I think it's what you're saying. It's like they're too attached to like the details of the process and the nuances that they can't zoom out and see like the bigger picture, which is what we're talking about. Like what is somebody that's actually doing credit strategies is um what's his name? Don Draper, right? The >> Yeah, Don Draper. >> Yeah, there you go. >> Adman. >> So that's the actual high level perspective you should have is like that's your identity. That would be cool. like we should create a we should create, [clears throat] you know, like an admin admin accelerator and we're just sitting there. We got like the sunglasses on and we got like the suits and we have like the the the cigar bench and all that stuff and just like have >> that would be kind of funny. I think that will work >> and but the thing is like we're coming we're coming full circle and people don't realize it. Like this is the thing. We're coming full circle to what an original copyriter was. >> Yeah, it's nice >> because that's what the that's what the audience want. Now, don't get me wrong. Have I fallen victim to the whole idea of being very rigid and things? Yes, of course I have because there's some things that I'm just very rigid and and annoying about because I, you know, I'm used to it, but I do still evolve. It might take me a little bit longer, but I do do it. And it's like kind of like um I remember when we were having this discuss discussion last year, we spoke about this either on the show or we did it like privately. We were talking about how AI is really changing everything and how everyone really wants AI, AI, AI. And now what you're realizing is most people have actually used AI enough to be like, "Yeah, AI is not producing the results we need." Like all our stuff is like dropping down. We need these people back in who understand it. Because >> Mhm. >> It's like I said, human nature is lazy by by design, but more importantly, it doesn't see itself far ahead enough. like it just doesn't look that far ahead because you can't be like um it's the equivalent of I'm going to turn my my plane into purely AI with zero pilot on the plane and then wonder why my plane is about to crash. Well, it's because the AI knows what to do, but you need a manual driver behind it in order to understand how to actually make the adjustments, make them on the fly, whatever happens. If the AI fails, then there's a manual captain right there to actually override take over. And most businesses and most uh creative strategists don't think that way. I mean, don't get me wrong, creative strategy is wonderful, but what's going to end up happening is, and this is the real warning for everyone, you're going to have a lot of people saying that they're creative strategists, but they have no idea what it is. They'll come into the marketplace, they'll charge a shitload of money, they won't be able to deliver the result, and then as a result, everyone who is a good creative strategist will get [ __ ] over because the client has been burned. >> Yep. >> So, do yourselves a favor, get really good at this, and charge more money, by the way, as a creative strategist if you're good as one. Like, char but add what if they doesn't matter if they don't. If you put your prices up and your client can't pay it or like the people you're pitching can't pay it, find a middle ground and get in with them so they actually remember who you are and what you're doing. >> Also, make sure that if you're producing any content, cuz again, content is king and really does matter in today's day and age. Literally talk about the differences of what you do versus what others do because you'll find a lot of people opportunistic. A lot of people are really opportunistic and they'll be like, "Hey, yeah, so um I I remember this with copywriters like again about uh 10 11 years ago when copy became more of a niche secret skill and then became a widespread bisop. Um I was competing with people who were charging like 15 to $20,000 to write a sales letter who had never written a sales letter before, by the way. They only did it because they had like Yeah. I literally had this like um Because at the time I was charging way less because again I was still dealing with my own insecurities. I was like okay I can charge like $10,000 for a sales letter. This is fine. I'd come in and speak to someone like yeah we just paid someone like 20 grand to write a sales piece and it was absolutely [ __ ] and now we have no money to pay anyone else. And then you look up that person and you're like that dude's been writing for two weeks and you paid him 20 grand. He's like yeah who's a really good salesman. I was like okay you're an idiot. That's what all I'm hearing is that you did not do your due diligence >> cuz like the thing is at the re at the end of the day build that portfolio and have that conversation with people and as a creative strategist keep a [ __ ] portfolio. >> Yeah. >> Like show what you've done differently. And I think you said this on and thank you again because I finally got the video downloaded. Um was the gurus and mentors to look at and the ones to avoid. And I think one of the things that you said about mine was uh having someone prove that they can do what they do completely off the cuff. >> Yeah. >> Get good at proving stuff off the cuff because that as as someone who's hiring a creative strategist or if you're a business owner watching this, get them to prove it. And if they're like, "Oh, I don't do it. I don't I don't prove things for free." I'm like, "You don't ask them to prove it free. Give them a hypothetical. And don't do the sell me this pen [ __ ] but really give them an actual situation." >> Yeah. [ __ ] that. That Jordan belt. Like the Wolf of Wall Street is [ __ ] responsible for so many people like, "Sell me, >> sell me this pen." >> Anytime someone does that to me face to face, I just take their pen from them and walk away. And they're like, "Hey, but my pen." I'm like, "You can buy it back from me." That's it. >> That's pretty good. Yeah. I think this is I think this is a this is a big part of the problem now. Um that it's always it's the same thing with every cycle. Like I was saying this last year. I I have it on recording. You can go watch one of my old videos for anyone listening that's going to say like, you know, that that disagrees with this. I said it last year in like November, October. I think I even probably said it with you live when we were doing one of our coaching calls from for the dojo. I was just saying like 2026 is going to be about who you know. And the reason it's going to be about who you know is because all of this AI trend has removed a barrier of entry. But at the same time, it's increased the the skepticism acceleration of the market. And these trends are going to go away very quickly where like the the AI stuff that's working is not going to perform for more than a couple of weeks or maybe a month. And it's going to go back to the fundamental universal structures that work in ads. And then everybody's going to be like, well, we don't want to create a strategist that um has no experience and everybody's going to want a lot of experience. And the the requirements of entry are going up with business owners now. Like last year um I remember in the dojo we were closing like some copers didn't even have any any ecom experience in their CV. Nothing. They didn't even position themselves as anything. They just called themselves credit strategist and ecom founders were hiring them. And obviously we we trained them well and they've delivered and they're still working in the industry and now they have more data. But this year it's like I'm getting a lot of people say like, "Oh, you know, I can't break in cuz every single application's asking for ecom experience." It's like, yeah, well that's because because people keep going in and overcharging and don't know what they're doing and then they burn business owners and now business owners are like, "Don't bother applying unless you have two to three years of experience." >> And actually, we were even talking about this back when we were doing that one promotion, right? We were doing a promotion um for one of my offers back in January, I think this year. >> Yeah, >> we were doing that. We were talking about like, hey, if you you know, if you don't jump in now, >> 90day window, >> there's a 90-day window. That window is closed where there was like you could get in all this stuff that specific stuff is >> that as an aside, by the way, that would be a great promotion for your list to actually tell them about this and be like, "Hey, by the way, remember I told you this would be 90 days from now?" Well, it took less time. And it did take less time. It was only 60 days. like within two months of this year, by March, all the creative strategy roles, all the stuff for the ecom, they were like, "No, no, you need experience to actually come in and talk to us." >> Yeah. They all want it now. So now what you got to do if you're listening to this and you're like, "Oh, no, what do I do?" It's like, "Well, if you do have experience in info in other industries, you can reposition it and talk about it and translate it in a way that makes sense to ecom." like consumer brand, you know, I got experience working with consumer brands or I have experience with uh new customer acquisition, you know, like these kinds of words or like life life cycle marketing. What other things would you suggest to people that want to break into the space that have a background in cooperating, but they're they're they're finding themselves up against this like experience barrier or um results. Show us this and that. >> Show them your results. Like the look, all you got to be able to do the only way I managed to write for like 433 odd different niches, markets, and industries, which is by the way, how the [ __ ] do you do that? Well, you just keep talking to them. And they're like, what do you mean? Like I don't sell like I tell people I don't write for niches. I write for humans. >> And it's one of my favorite quotes by Jav Spectre. It's in my notepad. It's don't play the don't play the odds, play the man. And what that means is >> look at human nature. play the human nature card. Like what I do is I help people create I help create buying situations or facilitate buying situations. That's actually what I do. I put the right offer in front of the right person at the right time with the right wording with the right advertising to get them to say yes. Well, have you done that as a copywriter? Well, have you done it for ecom? Yes. Have you done it for if you've never done it for ecom for instance, have you done it for and all your stuff is in info for instance like coaching and info. How do you actually move that over? Well, have you helped your client retain more sales from their mailing list? Yes. Great. Have you helped your client increase their sales to their mailing list? Yes. Have you written ads that brought in customers? Yes. Have you positioned your client in a way that basically makes them stand out in the marketplace that's very, very crowded? Yes. Talk about Excuse me. Talk about those things. M >> talk about how like I'll give you a video that I'm going to be shooting later today cuz I think it's a great idea is quite simply one of the things I've done differently is um positioning it well if you're you know if you're in for a personal brand it could be I positioned what was it I helped my clients stand out in a very saturated overcrowded market and actually sell over a million dollars inside a 90-day window >> and now bringing that over to ecom where you guys are far more open. You have far less competition. You have far more like the the boundary of skepticism is that the results and benefits are far more tangible because I was selling intangible stuff. >> Now I'm selling tangible. [laughter] >> Yeah. Like that's literally what you're doing. >> It's a really good argument. >> Like like that's what I was selling. Oh, I was so good at writing info. Yeah. you are selling digital products and coaching that literally had no results that you could actually like look at because humans are so diverse in how they apply things that they themselves may not be able to get actually get the results. So for instance um like I know I'm elite at what I do. It's because I have trained some of the best copyriters you'll find out and some of the best marketers out there and Matthew you've seen me do this with a lot of people. You see the improvements that happens. So, I'm still teaching. I I can still show people how to do that result, but even then, I can be like, "Yeah, but there's some people who never applied what I said to them because of human laziness and human error." Uh, go there's still a failure rate that's going to be affected in what we do no matter how good I am. Even Tony Robbins has a failure rate. Whereas, if I'm selling a supplement, if I'm selling shoes, if I'm selling a neutropic, if I'm selling a sleep aid, if I'm selling something, a piece of clothing, if I'm selling something that is physically tangible, [laughter] it's so much easier to describe those benefits because I'm like, >> in two weeks, you will be holding my product in your hand. You'll be able to look at it and show it off to your friends. You can't be like, "Hey, look at my coaching." >> There's nothing there. like you can't invite your friend over to look at your new coaching program and um like the results that you're getting from your coaching program. It's very very difficult to show that and explain it. Whereas if you sell someone like I don't know uh custommade um I don't know custom made uh teacups that have like really funky designs on you like hey man look at my really cool design that I've got this this is like selling millions or uh my friend Dan who is an incredible copyright turned ecom business owner he sells candles but for a very specific niche >> and you can smell his candles that's a physical tangible product >> and this is one thing people don't realize it. And by the way, that's something that you should have um if you're struggling right now with info, like, oh, how do I get clients? I worked in info last 5 years, whatever it is, >> or coaching or any of the spaces that you were in that were basically non-tangible results. The game just got so much easier for you. Like, pitch your clients this way. Hey guys, I was selling air. I was selling ice to Eskimos. That's what I was doing. I was selling air to humans. >> I was selling water to fish. Like that's what I was doing. Oh, how'd you do that? Well, I was telling people how to do this, that, the other. Oh, that's pretty cool. Why do you want to do ecom? Well, because yours is so much easier to do than the other thing. Why? I have a physical tangible product that I can point at results in. The thing arrives, you apply it, and you see a result. >> What do you mean deodorant? Like, there was a company I was pitching recently that literally did do that. They sell deodorants >> like and stuff, but their audience is >> their audience was teenage boys. Like their audience was like selling to moms who have smelly teenage development boys who are going through body odor issues and they're like you need to sell them this like okay uh traditional like what's called aerosol cans or like whatever it is or ax or links or whatever it is. Um that deodorant is harmful to their body because it's mass-produced. We have a very natural version that's really really good for them that won't make them smell bad and won't damage their skin long term. Buy it from us. >> It arrives. Give it to your child. If they don't like it within the first week and they don't smell better, send us the thing back and we'll give you a money back. You now have instant stakes. They don't have to wait 90 days to see a result. >> They can day one, oh, this smells amazing. Great. I've now I'm now a customer for life. >> Like, >> yeah, >> it's so [ __ ] easy. It's so [ __ ] easy. And I'm saying this out loud to someone that's realizing this as well of how in how simple this is going to be. >> It really is because like the other thing is all the data that's already been like validated for like the unique selling point because with info >> it's like the unique selling point is very very dependent on like the mechanism that you've used to to set up to set the opportunity up, right? You have to like mentally set up, oh, this is an opportunity for you and here's how you're going to benefit, you know? Um, whereas with ecom, >> if it's a physical product, it's like there's a USP and there's a builtin mechanism in the in the I don't know the compound that they use in the spray or whatever it is. It's like that that product's very unique patent or whatever they they they're doing to sell it. It's not like it's going to change. It's not like an info where you have to change the mechanism every two three months. you know, you can potentially re restructure the selling mechanism, but like >> with info, it's like I have to constantly re resell the opportunity and say like, "Hey, here's why this is the best opportunity today." Whereas later, it's not going to be there. And then 3 months later, you have to come up with a whole new funnel, a whole new belief shift sequence, whole new mechanism. I find with ecom, of course, there's other challenges. There's other things like tapping into broader markets and finding pockets of customers and that's a whole different skill for sure than info. >> Um you can apply an info too but like the mechanism from the USP onwards a lot of the time feels very s simple and very similar >> and a lot of the time it's just about like how do we find that that like that lead that has the broadest market. That's really it. It's like figuring out that big hook and that lead and then like a few different variations of that, like a few dimensionalizations, blah blah blah blah blah. It's not that complicated. Like I I don't find it that difficult. I actually found writing email copy and info harder than this. Like I >> Yeah, >> I'm re I'm reviewing emails um and I'm like, oh, you know, I'm sitting and reviewing the email for 20 minutes with like with a piece of creative strategy like a a brief or a UGC script or something. I'm reading it. like, yeah, this lead, you're not calling out the audience um in in a a unique way. The previous script, you had the exact same call out. Like, maybe twe tweak that, tweak the lead a little bit. Try this different dimensionalization. Test it and tell me how the data goes. Like, done. Like 5 minute review. Meanwhile, email like you need to change this, you need to change this, you need to change this. Here's how you redo the clothes. like >> you know >> it's the best description I can have for you guys is circa 2014 to 2019 like 5year stretch >> where every we were we were I remember talking to a few of my friends where they were like yeah dude if you stop selling to marketers and just start selling to regular people you will make way more money and I was like what do you guys mean they're like marketers know all the tricks so you now need to pull out new tricks and new secrets and new things that they haven't seen before >> whereas selling to an everyday person who has never seen this [ __ ] they're Holy [ __ ] this is like magic. What are you doing? This is so incredible. And you're like, >> yeah, that's just really basic. So with UGC scripts and like even ecom stuff, they are using a fraction of what we actually know and know how to use. Like I was talking to someone about this. We were they were doing um they were asking me how do I sell more stuff to my audience like to my to my client's audience. I read the emails. Not one of them had a story whatsoever attached to it. So I was like, "Just try that." They're like, "What do you mean?" Like, "Just try adding a story here." >> And so they were like, "What do you mean?" I was like, "Well, the entire pitch that you are sending out is here's the thing that we have. Here's why it's discounted. Go buy it right now." And there's no reasons. There's no benefits. There's no nothing. And the benefits are like one sentence. The benefit is like, let's take the deodorant thing as an example. It's like smell better. Um, make your child not stink up the house. It's like literally that level of like dumbness. So when we start going like um you know we did a testimonial for one of their people was like let's say again deodorant as an example would be this is James it's like uh what was it James couldn't get James couldn't get a date until dot dot dot and the email would be like so we got this email from one of our customers who basically said their son James had had a really hard time getting on dates like every time he'd go out he'd have a great time and he'd be like really really happy but then he would come home and wonder why his date would never call him back and I kept and it and it didn't really dawn on me that his natural bo until like he sat down and I talked to the girl and she was like, "I really like him, but he just smells really bad." Like I I hope we can do something about this, but we don't really know. Um again, I'm shooting this off the fly right now. >> Yeah. And it was the whole thing was just talking would been talking about how this kid's bo was so bad and how like once they actually started using our products, James started to actually see an improvement in his dating life, his confidence. Uh our natural products are our deodorant 100% natural. So it doesn't damage his skin naturally. It doesn't cause any production hormonal uh changes what he needs. Uh it's healthy and friendly for the environment. So it means that even if he's trying to even if he's smelling better, he's not actually damaging the environment around him. including his bo. Haha. And then something else is a third point. And then be like, "Go buy this thing right now if you want to smell better and actually boost your confidence." Boom. That's your sales [ __ ] pitch. That's how easy that stuff is because they don't use it. They don't use it. And they were like, "We just did what?" Like that's insane. Um I had this with uh one of the guys that is in one of your guys, Pepe. Uh, I was I was helping him out with something and he started using like he started using emails for his client and I swear to God they 10xed that email revenue by simply adding stories. >> 10xed >> like 10x they were making uh without I don't think Pepe is going to be mad about me saying this, but they were making 8,000 a month on emails after he entered the conversation. Just did a couple of tweaks. They made $80,000 afterwards. >> Think about how insane that Think about how easy that is. The stuff that we do on hard mode >> is easy for us on ecom. So, you just need to position yourself and get in front of these people. The thing I love about like the ecom space as well is the worst part is that it makes they pay you like two to three times more than info because in info the gurus is always like doing this bit of tug and war to try and keep money because they don't have equity in their business. A lot of it like most of them don't have any equity. It's just info. So it's always like how do we squeeze as much as possible? How do we get the team to work like dogs? Obviously there's exceptions. I've love info. Like I've been in it for like almost a decade now. I'm getting old. But with ecom, it's like >> say that to me. [laughter] >> So with with ecom, it's like, you know, they they've they're scaling for either an exit or to get into retail to distribute like across America or whatever their play is. It's not a money. It's not like an instant cash play. It's a it's a growth play. It's a let's scale the revenue. And I think that that kind of psychology coupled with ads when you're used to spending 10 to $100,000 a day in ads, what is 10k a month to have a creative strategist like sit in the account and actually create some winners that you can spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on? >> It's not a lot of money for them, right? >> Even a creative consultant who's getting paid 10 grand a month just to basically look over stuff and be like, "Yeah, no, do it this differently. Do this differently. Do this differently. Stand out this way. Do this other thing. Make your life a lot easier." And by the way, just to go back to this point, that company that I worked with in Germany, they sold for 165 million, by the way, just to give you an idea. They sold like and it started by two copyriters. The two copyriters like walked away with like well over like 30 million a piece. >> That's pretty good >> of this. >> Damn. And they recently just they s they signed a very big celebrity >> in this like right now as their spokesperson and their creative market because this person now jumped ship because they're like I can do creative marketing they can't but whatever they have a big name. Going back to it what I'm going to say though is that you could the way that you pitch these clients from now on just as an idea. Don't pitch them like info product clients. Pitch them as you would anyway and have a conversation. Hell, even go ahead and like I remember Shiv, shout out to Shiv Shetty, uh I know he's no longer in the space, but like he's a really really good dude who had his process where he would be like, "Look, I'll just send you a couple of emails for free up front. You can test them. If you like them, then we can work together." >> You can do almost the same thing with ecom and be like, "Hey, listen. I' I've got a couple of emails. Test them out with your audience. Let me know what you think." Oh, this works really well. Great. Hire me. How much do we hire you for? 10 grand a month. Thank you. And they're like, "All right, cool. you've what are your responsibilities and then you basically write out the scope and the beauty is yes you will be paying you'll be making you'll be doing a lot more work let's just put it that way you'll be doing more work >> but you will get paid a shitload more >> oh no gets paid so much money you know >> and it's not even more work in the way that it's where it used to be like so I'll give you an idea and this is a belief that I had to shift in myself and for for one of my dudes >> was um >> so for instance if If you were told to write a 30 email welcome sequence or a 30 email sequence for info, that's [ __ ] hard because you got to come with like hooks, angles, processes, and everything else. 30 emails for like econ that's like those emails could literally be one page. Those emails could literally be like subject line, hey, thank you for joining our mailing list. Hey, thanks so much for joining our mailing list. We'll be sending you some really cool stuff. In the meantime, have a look at this, including stories. go buy our product if you really like it. Take care. Thanks. Bye. And then the next email goes into like almost the same thing because you don't have to sell them on a benefit or an idea of staying active. They've already said yes, they want the thing. You just keep telling them why they should buy it. >> I feel like the title of this video should be like creative strategy is easy when you do this. >> I think that would be the perfect little title for this. Like make creative strategy easy for yourself. >> Yeah. like it's it's not uh of course I respect the craft and the guys that I'm coaching they're working hard. They're making a lot more money than they used to make. They are working hard but it's not difficult. It's still simple. Even though it's hard work, it's still a simple process. And I think that the process in info is more complex. You know, there's there's a lot more moving pieces and there's a lot I I think the learning curve is actually honestly a lot harder in info because with ecom it's like >> huge. >> You just have to understand structures. is you have to understand like the ad structures and like what you're breaking down and like why you're breaking it down. You access to data and the best part is like you actually get access to data in a way where you can see what's happening on the account. Whereas a lot of these info accounts either they don't have their tracking properly dialed in or they do and it's all on the media buyer shoulders and you just kind of following the instructions. But with these these ecom clients, you have a lot more like creative liberty to to kind of look at the actual data and be like what an actual marketer does. It's like live in the ad account and split test stuff and so you learn a lot quicker too. So anyway, >> um I know the the conversation was like >> what exactly is the process and like how do you break into it and now I think we're just both selling ourselves more and more on how simple this is. >> It is actually so much more simple. Like I'm like talking to you I'm kind of like why have I been pushing this rock up this hill so much? It's like don't just go downhill make life easier for you. >> Yeah. So over the last year I've seen something I've never seen before. copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. >> What What do you think the the big challenges actually are? Maybe let's go there for a minute. Like what do you think the actual >> pitching >> is it that >> 100% pitch? Yeah, it's really pitching and actually getting comfortable with the amount of work that you need to do because if you're a heavy creative and you get put into an environment where there's a lot of data and speaking mostly for myself on this because again I do like data but again it's being able to check both. There's an element where you feel like the new kid at the school where you don't really know what you're doing. But the difference is, and this is a really big mindset shift for a lot of people, uh, and it's one that I'm actually realizing myself, is that you're not the new kid at the school, you're the new cool kid at the school. So, you're not the new kid who's like, I'm like shy stuff. You're like, no, you're the new shiny kid that everyone wants to play with the at the playground to actually find out where you're where you fit in the hierarchy. So, this gives you like an in that no one else has. So, utilize that. So for instance, if you're thinking about, okay, I don't know data analytics and I don't know all that stuff, it's not difficult to watch a YouTube video on this, like how do I discern what it is? And as Richard Branson likes to like his big quote is if you don't know how to do something, say yes and figure out along the way. And the way that you can do that is once you get the job, just be like, hey, could you walk me through your data analytics? I can just have a look at them and see what it is and get the person to walk you through them and be like, "Okay, cool. So, could you send me a couple of your previous UGC scripts so I can see what there is or you a couple of your emails so I can see what you're looking for? Oh, wonderful. Thank you so much. And then you just basically play because a lot of the times the fear in your head is that it's like >> it's like info where you're expected to know everything from the day that you come in. Whereas this, they're a little bit more forgiving if you just look at their data. If you look at their stuff and go, "Oh, I can fix this all day." And then go play. >> Yeah. >> It's really shifting. I'd say it's shifting that internally. That's one thing. And the second is the selling because you said right now they're looking for two or three years of experience in ecom. Well, you can circumvent that by literally saying I may not have two or three years of experience in ecom, but what I do have is a lifetime or I have like three or four years in info where I'm used to selling air to humans and basically selling nothing. So, I would love to get on a call with you. Can we speak for 10 minutes? And what you mean? If I cannot get you, if I cannot show you that I know what I'm doing inside 10 minutes, don't hire me. In fact, send me one of your emails that you're currently working on and let's see what I can do. >> Mhm. >> Get on a call in that 10-minute phone call. Be like, "Hey, here's my screen share. This is the Google Doc or what you sent me. These are the edits of how I'd make it different. Um, and this is why and this is the reason why." Great. And like, oh [ __ ] >> that's really good, too. You can just demonstrate live. Like, here's how I would iterate this concept. Yeah, because live demon there's nothing that beats live demonstration and you know this like you've seen me do this a bunch of times whenever I like verbalize and shoot copy off the hip. They're like >> you've done it like a couple times already on this on this interview and I feel like it's going to be demonstration for a lot of people. You know, they're just going to I like just listening to it. It's quite entertaining. One thing you said that that's pretty good is um I think this is quite powerful is obviously the live demonstration but having some samples can also like if you say for example like I have three to four years in info but what I did was I had a look at your brand and I went ahead and I put together these three to four concepts that I don't see you guys are currently running to call out different avatars that are within the same like market demographic and I think try these and see what they you know if you like go ahead and run them. That could also demonstrate that it's like, yeah, look, I have all this experience selling air to humans. And I went ahead and demonstrated I know exactly how I'm doing what I'm doing here with ecom by just writing you some some UGC scripts or some briefs and you can go ahead and pass these to your team. And uh I'll tell you what, for most of you listening to this, it's like I maybe it's free already somewhere, but like even if it's not free, there's like a couple of programs or a couple of things out there where you can literally just spend $100 and you can get access or like get hooked for example. Like get hooked is a >> is a software, right? Like you you just just take like a$100 $200 budget >> and you could literally reverse engineer and figure out what the exact you could even pay a copyriter. could just grab some interview that I've done with one of the students that I've coached on this channel and reach out to them, $100, $200, pay them for their time, ask them to show you the best practices of their workflow, and you could borrow that workflow. And you could take the Google doc, the way that they deliver the copy, and then you just build your portfolio with the exact same workflow as that. And when you show the client, they're going to be like, "Huh, this document looks exactly the same in terms of formatting and design and structure and delivery as every single other person we work with. They clearly know what the hell they're doing." Like that is in itself is a live demonstration just formatting the doc correctly, you know, >> correctly. Yeah, >> there is that. And just to jump and dovetail off the back end of what you're saying here because it really makes sense. >> I've never understood this and this is a laziness that I've noticed with a lot of copyriters, not just in any space. And I get it. I'm going to call it laziness, but it could be just, oh, we're not used to it. No one likes to practice anymore. I don't know if you've noticed this. They just like to live de they like to live play. They never practice. They're like, I'm going to practice on my clients thing. It's like, [ __ ] don't do that, right? >> Like, practice your skills when you're not being watched. So, an idea that really worked for me when I when I was coming up, like the story of me writing a,000 sales letters in a single year, which is three and a half sales letters a day. And again, like I said, I only used five of them, but that gave me 995 samples to show people like, "Can I see your portfolio?" I was like, "Yeah, here you go." Boom. And they're like, I'd even write at the very top, "These are purely samples and ideas of what I can create." And people like, "Oh [ __ ] you probably had a time machine and used AI from the future or something cuz it's like, >> oh, definitely 100%. >> Clearly, clearly you just did that. It's not like my brain was the AI, but anyway." >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, Adel intelligence if you will. >> There we go. Adel.ai. >> But going back to what we were saying, it's if you're literally at home right now, if you're watching this, just go ahead and do yourself a favor. Block out an hour. Go find an ecom business that you would like to work for. Either join their mailing list or look at what they're currently doing. Go to their ads library. Look at whatever it is. I mean, there's so many free resources. You can use Get Hooked if you want to, but like Facebook ad library. If you don't want to spend any money, go through Facebook ad library, find who it is, rewrite four of their ads, find their email address from like their from their website, mail it to them, be like, "Hey guys, uh the subject line could literally be looked at your ads. Here's a couple of improvements. Hey, I'm breaking into the ecom space right now. I've worked in info and I've worked in copy for absolutely years, but I am a creative strategist and these are the things that I do differently." Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. These are the things I've done >> attached. I couldn't help myself, but I'm was like, I couldn't help myself. So, I did some research on your company. Absolutely love what you guys stand for. Created four new ads for you. Please go ahead and test them. Just let me know what you think. If you like them, reply back to me and I'll send you some more. Take care. Speak soon. Bye. Or I've written these things for you guys that'll cover and just outline them. I've written four Facebook ads that hit different angles that you guys are missing. Um, and I look through, I checked if you guys have used them in the past. You haven't actually used these angles at all, but they actually work because of this reason, this reason, this reason, and this reason. Um, just send me a quick little reply and I will happily send it to you because if I send it to you right now as an attached folder, it will go straight to spam. Um, looking forward to hearing from you. Speak soon. Person's name. Great idea as an example of how to get started with that conversation. Another conversation starter could literally be just I'm your target demographic. Hi, I am literally your target demographic. This is the [ __ ] that I buy and I don't think you guys are selling to me correctly. Here are three things I would do differently if you were to pitch people like me. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Here you go. Boom. Done. >> It's like the easiest little win. >> Yeah. >> It's it's such an easy lead in like I remember um so Vessie Shoes, Vesi shoes, like their boots. I'm their perfect demographic customer because like they're waterproof shoes that are stylish as hell. But like I don't live in a country that's wet anymore. So I can't use them. But I'm I'm like if I lived in a if I lived in Germany for instance, I'd be like, "Yeah, [ __ ] sign me up for some vesty shoes because I'm the right person to pitch these cuz I use them." Um Vibrams, Birkenstocks, like you can pitch shoe brands if you wanted this way just simply by saying, "You guys are missing out on this thing. Let me help you with it." M >> and also keep in mind that most ecom businesses, most of the founders come from the world of like how traditional shoe stores and traditional brick and mortar businesses run. They're not digital marketers. They're not from our world. They know how to use like Instagram, but they don't know how to actually like run the strategies. Like if you sit down and say, "Hey, um, so do you know who uh you're like, "Do you know who Gary Halbbert is? Do you know who Jay Abraham is? Do you know who Clayton Makepiece is? Do you know who like uh you know Lorie Morgan is? Do you know who any of these people are? And they're like, "No, we have no idea who the [ __ ] they are." And you're like, I have such an unfair advantage over you. >> This is good. I like this. This is This is good. Ed'll appreciate this, man. Ed.ai. >> Of course. I I think it's uh it just goes to show like the fundamental skills translate into anything because you know obviously we've been doing a lot of work together in in in the space you know before it became a trend and everybody started to catch on but I their workflow that they're currently doing in a lot of these accounts is a little bit unique and yet I feel like all the stuff that we've talked about today just based on my experience working with all these creative strategists it's like you just dominate like if you went in right now and you wanted to go and I don't know put put that hat back on and and be a copyriter for for a year, you would you would just completely, you know, clean the competition up because they they're they're just sitting there and they're they're stuck in the in the details of the process and they're not just applying like differentiation. just apply marketing to your own business. I think is really the biggest takeaway that I'm having here is like once you understand the workflow and you understand like what's required of you as a creative strategist, which is what we first talked about, then just apply marketing to yourself and position yourself differently. >> Yeah, that's really good. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's good. >> Someone already owns Adel.ai. >> Damn it. >> Where can people find you if they want to? >> Sorry, >> I was imagine it's just me, but I've totally forgot I own this domain. It could you could have bought him like 20 years ago, you know, when you wrote all those sales letters, you're like, "Hey, I'm basically an AI at this point." And you're like, "I had a little AI. Let me buy that real quick." >> But yeah, to answer your question, uh the best place you guys can find me um easily is well, it's actually two places actually. Just find me on Instagram, [music] Adela. Like, if you just find me on there, it's great. I reset my I've started a brand new Instagram account, so I'm actually going to be posting far more frequently, which is what I'm currently doing. Um I'm currently posting twice a day on there. like so there's a lot of information so we're talking about life business mindset creative strategy and everything else in between um so yeah just hit me up on there you'll find me a lot more easier and if you want to check out my website if you are cuz I do have copyriters and marketers don't join my mailing list please because it's not meant for you like there is literally it won't you won't get any benefit out of it like at all but if you're a business owner who is literally doing over a million dollars a year head over tomarcy.com [music] I do have a free report on there that's coming out very soon cuz we're still building out the site should be live by the time this thing goes live where I basically walk through the five mistakes that you're currently making that's costing you like hundreds of thousand hundreds of [music] thousands of dollars a year because you're just blinding to them. And this is a stuff I've seen with my clients. So go check it out. And by the way, the more money you make, the more money you're losing because you're not doing the stuff. >> Yeah. Thanks so much, man. This has been really fun. Really enjoyed it. >> Thank you for having me, man. As always, it's been a pleasure. >> Yeah. Chat soon, bro. Take care. Take care guys. Bye.