Give me 10 minutes and I'll get you your first digital product sale. I know it sounds like a crazy promise, but I've generated over $3 million selling digital products. And I can tell you this, getting your first sale is not as hard as you think. And it has almost nothing to do with having a big audience, a fancy website, or a perfect product. It really just boils down to following a few simple steps in the right order. And to help you in this video, I'm giving you those exact steps so you can go from zero to one. So, let's get started. First, we need to get clear on what a digital product actually is because most beginners get this totally wrong. For your first sale, you don't want to be going through months of trying to create a product only to find out if it's actually something that people want, if it's something that's working, cuz as you're getting started, you want it to be a simple solution to a simple problem. Now, how you deliver that solution doesn't have to be complicated. It can be a PDF that you've literally written something in a Google document and then exported it as a PDF file. That could be it. It could be a checklist. It could be a template that you've created. It could be a spreadsheet that you've done. It could be a short audio recording. It could be a curated list of resources. It could be pretty much anything as long as it actually solves a problem that's specific. It doesn't have to be complex. Think about it like this. Your goal isn't necessarily to build an entire house. All you're doing is the first step. Like you're making a key, a single key that unlocks a single door for one person. That's it. When I was creating my first digital product, which by the way, I did not know how to get sales way back in the day, but my first digital product was exactly that. It wasn't that I was trying to solve everything for everyone. It wasn't an online course either. I was a health blogger and a recipe blogger at the time, and I was a single college student who was wanting to be healthy. So, I was looking for single serve options, easy to make, microwavable, like fast for college student that's kind of broke. So, my first digital product was a recipe book filled with different single serve healthy recipes for people like me. That's all it was. And I was hoping that there would be at least a few people in my audience that would be interested, and there were. So, did I make $100,000 with that product? No. But did I get a few sales? Yeah. And that's how everything started. Now, I didn't know what I know now. So, my goal is to help you with getting that first sale because I know how sweet it can feel when you get the first sale. Now, before we talk about how to actually get the sales, we need to talk about what it is that you're selling. Your goal is to solve a simple problem. Now, the question is, how do we actually find a problem that's worth solving? I mentioned already, I don't want you to be creating a massive online course. I actually want your first digital product to be very simple. Like, literally sell it for like $5 to $10. Like it does not have to be complicated. And the reason why you want it to be low price is you just want to go from the person that wants to make money online to the person that has made money online. Even if that first product is $5 to $10, it's still a big identity shift that happens. So you still want it to be an easy way for people that don't know you to say yes to your product. So instead of trying to think of million-dollar problems, which is what most people will tell you to do for you, I just want you to think about a $10 problem. It does not have to be a life-changing problem, but it is a nagging, annoying problem that gets in the way for a certain type of person. Now, this has to be something that, you know, people have tried to fix this thing. It's really annoying. It's really frustrating, but they're not really willing to pay tons of money for it. And the reason why this works is but because most people that created your products are not going to be focusing on such a micro problem. They're probably going to go for bigger problems. So this actually leaves a lot of opportunity for you to be that person that helps others in this particular way. Now I want to give you a formula for finding this idea. Who struggles with what when trying to do something? As an example, new moms who struggle with knowing what to pack in a diaper bag. What when leaving the house for the first time something. So specific unique problems for very specific people. So how do you know where those problems exist? How do you find those problems? You don't want to be making them up. I mean, I guess you could, but let's go off of research. So, I want you to dig into Reddit threads. I want you to go into Facebook groups. I want you to go into the comments section of your favorite creators. You can even look at text messages between your friends. Think about conversations you've been having. What are people asking for help with and what are they struggling to find the solution to? Make a list as long as possible of all the things that you keep hearing about. Your task right now is to find the one problem for the one type of person. I don't want you to overthink it. Just pick one. The second step is to create your product in 60 minutes. Once you have your problem, it's time to create the solution. And this should not take you more than like an hour really because it's an MVP. An MVP means minimum viable product. You don't want to be putting a lot of energy or a lot of effort into something that you don't know if it's going to perform. So, you want to be using free and simple tools. This is about speed. It's about action. It is not about perfection. You don't need to have your product look as beautiful as you see all the other creators products. They have a team for that. They have a budget for that. You don't. So, let's make it simple and focus on the value in the actual product. Now, again, I want to reiterate this. Good enough is good enough. That's all you need to do because you're not charging hundreds of dollars for this thing. You're charging $5 to $10. That's it. This product you're creating is simply a test. It's designed to get a result, but it's not designed to win a design award or to get known and famous. Like, that's not the purpose of this really. It's to help you shift the identity from someone who wants to make money online but never has to someone that actually did the thing and made their first few dollars. That's it. That's all we're doing. So, there's many different tools that you can be using. If you're making a checklist or a guide, you can use Google Docs. That's free. Pick to Chart. That's another option. If you're making a template, you can use notion or Google Sheets or Excel. Are people still using Excel? I think so. I just use Google. Now, as you're creating this, there's a simple structure that you can follow as you're putting it together, especially if you're putting together like a PDF or a guide or something like that. The first one is a title. So, identify the clear outcome. For example, let's say you're calling this the perfect diaper bag checklist. Then, you have an intro page. So, this is where you share one sentence or one paragraph explaining who this is for and what it solves and why you've created it. Then you have a few pages that go into the content. So this is where you get the actual checklist, the actual template or the guide or what have you. And then you have an outro. So this is in one sentence or one paragraph with your name, who you are, and maybe a link to your social media. And that could be it. Now, of course, if you're creating a spreadsheet, you don't even have to do any of those things. You literally just give them access to the spreadsheet, and it's like, here you go. Here it is. And that's pretty much it, right? Like again, it doesn't have to be beautiful or complex or fancy. It just has to exist. That's all it is. Now, pause this video if you need to. Go make your product right now. I'll be here when you get back. Okay. So, you have the product. Now, you need a way to get paid. This is the part that trips everyone up, but it's actually the easiest step. Now, it didn't used to be it used to be very complex to get paid online. Not anymore. So, to sell a digital product, you just need a link to send to people. When people click on that link, they go to a checkout page where they can click to pay you and then they get their download. That's it. I personally use Thrive Kart to run my entire multi-million dollar business and it's the simplest, most powerful way to create those links. It handles the payment. It delivers the file automatically. And compared to a lot of options out there, it just works better than most of the options. So, if you're serious about this, you need a tool like this. And it's super easy to get started, especially for beginners. I'll show you in the link down below. So, click that link and you'll see why it's such an amazing deal. All right, step three is the first sale formula. So, how do you get your first customer? You're not going to be running paid ads. You're not going to be posting on social media a 100 times. You're going to do something way, way simpler. I want to introduce you to the find one, help one method. Your goal is to find the one person that has the exact problem your product solves. You know how I told you to research different places? Go on Reddit, go on Facebook groups, all these different places to find your problem idea. Well, hopefully you saved those places where you went and find those ideas because now you have a place to go to to find specific people who have recently posted about that problem. And you can use a very simple script to reach out to these people one by one and let them know about this thing that you've created. You want to make it authentic. You want to make it helpful. You don't want to make it spammy. You don't want to be just blasting everyone with the same thing. And I always like to speak to the reason why you created this. So if you have a personal story behind it, mention that because that makes it much more likely that people want to support you by purchasing that product. So here's a sample script you could use. Hey name, I saw your post in group name about struggling with problem. I actually created a quick guide spreadsheet checklist that walks you through exactly how to solve that. It's just $10. Let me know if you'd like the link. No pressure at all. Just thought it might help. I know reaching out to people directly might sound scary and you might get a no, but you're not a spammer. You're a problem solver. Be confident in the value you're offering. People do it literally all the time. And honestly, this is just a numbers game. Your goal is just to get one yes. Like that's it. That's the entire game. And then you know, okay, I've got something. It's validated. Cool. I feel better. The worst thing you can do though is reaching out to random people without seeing that they posted about the problem. Like that's kind of where it gets to feel spammy. So, as long as you've seen them talk about the problem, just let them know. The worst that can happen is they say no and you will be fine. So, in this video, you learned how to create something of value and sell it. You've gone from zero to one. But if you still need a bit of inspiration for what you could sell as a beginner, in the next video, I go over the exact digital products you can make and the most beginner friendly and easiest to get started with so you can start making money with this as soon as possible. I'll see you over there.