Most online coaches have inconsistent profit. Not because they're bad coaches, not because they have a bad offer, not because of anything other than when stats go up, they don't document what caused that stat to go up. When you just document what works and then just run that playbook, you kind of can't screw up. So, in this video, I'm going to share with you the record month formula and hand you the actual system that I give my clients when you stick around [music] to the end. And if you don't know who I am, my name is John Whiting. I've scaled three online businesses past seven figures. I sold one of them in 2019. And my goal is to help online coaches get to 50 to 100K a month in take-home profit. then take that profit, turn it into actual wealth [music] in your bank account so that one day coaching becomes optional. And if you want more videos that help you scale your online business in a way that doesn't suck, you can check out the rest of the channel. Let's walk through it. Complete this every time you have a record month in your business so that you can repeat it. And you can see there's a bunch of different categories here. We got everything from our KPIs, marketing, sales, fulfillment, operations, data and tracking, accounting, personal, and then at the end, we're going to narrow it down to the top three drivers. So, the numbers very important to establish this. What were your actual KPIs? Now, what I do is I take a screenshot of my Teddy dashboard and I just paste it in here so that it's kind of like a snapshot. And if you want to test drive the system, you can get a free demo link in the description. And what I also do is I screenshot my ad account with the Hyros overlays and stuff so that I can see what were the adsets and audiences and stuff that I was running and I have a snapshot of what I was doing so that inevitably when things go sideways I can go back to baseline. So that's what we're really trying to do here is we're just trying to establish the baseline success formula so that on an ongoing basis we can improve upon it but we have to establish the baseline first. So, what were all the stats? And then all I do is I don't sit there and type my commentary. So, on Google Docs on a Mac, I believe it's commandshifts and you can just do voice to text and it'll just start basically typing a whole bunch of words. And so what I personally do is I take this whole document and I look at what are the questions and I just kind of scroll through the document and I talk. So what were the main points? We documented this process. We hired this role. We started running these ads. We did a new specific process. We learned this new info. And so I just act like I'm getting interviewed basically. Oh, what were you doing for Facebook ads? We were doing this. Here was our overall strategy. And I just explain as much as I possibly can and just ramble, ramble, ramble, ramble. Here was our targeting. Here was the copy creative. So if you're running ads, like screenshot all of the creative, your ads library, copy paste your creative and or link to the actual ad creative that you're running so that you can go back to it and be like, "Oh, this is the copy and creative and the offer and the funnel that we were running when we had a record month. Cool. Now we can go back to that easily and remind oursel this is what works. Great. Were we running YouTube ads? Same thing. Organically, what were we doing? So like for me organically it's pretty simple. I post one video like this every single week and then I have a process where I basically cut up clips. And by the way, you don't need a video editor for this. I use a software called Descript Cut the clips. And I even have a prompt to find the clips. And literally this is all I do. So you can see here these are clips from previous YouTube videos, right? That's all this is. And so what we do then is we just have these scheduled once a day. And then occasionally once every couple of weeks, I'll make some sort of a carousel like this. So this is a carousel that walks through how to identify and position everything around your one best client, which by the way should also be included in your record month formula. Who was the avatar? What was the language? And if you want to get this template, you can go to my Instagram at bulletproof.j comment on this post. At least as of right now, it's pinned to the top and you can get a copy of this. But this is what happens, right? I get DMs that say, "Hey, I'm think I'm ready for your coaching. Everything's so well written. It's almost like everything you wrote in that link is exactly what I need. I'm ready to roll." And so part of my success formula is this content cadence. And so I would document what was I doing organically. So I do one YouTube video a week and I do one short form a day and that's just scheduled out. I use a software called Metracool and we just have that same piece of content that I just went over that are just scheduled out included on YouTube shorts as well. So here's all that same content, right? And it's really easy. And a video like this, I just record it once and we just have half a dozen clips. I give them to my VA to schedule out and we're good to go. And so I just kind of ramble in here on that process. And to be clear, the first time you do this, like it's going to be a little bit longer, but next time you have a record month, you're probably going to be doing quite a bit of stuff that you were doing on your first record month formula. And so on an ongoing basis, you're really then just identifying what are the slight changes and updating this becomes pretty straightforward. All I do is I just print it out. So it's literally sitting on my desk every single day. So what we were doing organically, what were our processes? What were our marketing processes? Right? So for me, I run ads to an SLO funnel and then I have the content cadence that basically constantly retargets people with specific pieces of content. And then I have a sequence where if you go back to my Instagram and DM me the word bulletproof, you'll see that I have a many chat automation that sends you all the details of what our bulletproof [snorts] boardroom looks like. And then there's an application process and then I just personally select who I want to allow in the bulletproof boardroom. And so I would dictate that process and I would put it on my success formula. So what is that for you? So sales low ticket describe your process and strategy. What are you selling if anything low ticket? What was the offer? Link to the landing page. even do. There's a Chrome extension that I use called awesome screenshot that takes one a really long screenshot of a sales page. Like I would put that in here as well. I just load this thing up with a snapshot of what were we doing when things were best. Here's the document that says all of it. And then if things start to dip, which inevitably they do for various different reasons, we can cross reference and say, well, are we running the playbook that we ran when things were going the best? And if the answer is, well, no, not exactly. Well, now we can start to identify what are the deviations that we've made and then we can correct. Oh, shoot. We hired this person and offloaded that and stats tanked. We have two options. We either fire that person and have somebody that was running that previously go back and run it again. In fact, I just did this with another client who delegated his sales team management and we had a conversation about it. Long story short, he took that back over and he had a record week within 10 days of taking back over the sales team and that was just part of the cleanup process of his business. Had scaled to multiple six figures a month. Had a team of like 25 people, many of them very unnecessary. So, we just cut out all of the bloat and started pushing things back towards when things were best. And wouldn't you know it, stats started going back up. Didn't need a whole new fancy game plan or a brand new offer. So, what were we doing for appointment setting? Now, I don't do appointment setting anymore. It's wonderful. We don't even have appointments to set, but what is your strategy for setting appointments? If you do appointment setting, describe it all here in detail. I say to all of my clients, as you do this, you want to have it so detailed that you could hand it off to somebody and they would be able to duplicate your record month because of the detail of this. So, this is like the master record month SOP, if you will. That's all we're doing is documenting successful processes. You'll screw this up if you aren't detailed enough. If you just kind of give oneline answers and stuff, you're just screwing yourself. So, don't do that. or do if you want to screw yourself, that's fine. It just probably won't feel as good as if somebody else screwed you. I don't know. Closing. Do you have closers? What's your closing process? Right. Mine's a selection process. Yours might be a phone closing process. What is the process, the strategy, the script, the objection handlers? Link it to here or just copy and paste it to here. Again, the more detail here, the better. What was your high ticket process? What high ticket offer or offers were you selling? By the way, if you're doing less than like $200 or $300,000 a month, you should really only have one high ticket offer. And that should be oriented around your best perfect ideal client, helping them get from point A to point B. And it should look a little something like this. Whereas right now, you have stuff that you know and skills. And then there's people with a problem that your skills can solve. And your offer is just an organized, repeatable process. First, we do this, then we do this, then we do that. And after they go through that process, you have happy people and clients with a solved problem and a happier, richer you. And you want these people right here to only be your best ideal target client. So, to illustrate this, my entire bulletproof boardroom offer is based on this gentleman right here, Justin Saunders. When he came to me, he was doing 18K a month. He's now consistently over 400k a month. And more importantly than that, in my opinion, he's he hasn't blown all the money. He's made a lot of profit and he's become a liquid millionaire as a result. And that's just by installing the systems that we have all of our clients install in the bulletproof boardroom. And so I define best client ever as they've paid you the most money. So, over the last 5 years that Justin's been a client, I think his LTV is somewhere around $300,000. He's returned way, way more than that. I believe it's close to $9 million. So, not bad. And he executes exactly what I tell him to do. Takes full responsibility for his results. He obviously gets great results. And the last part of that perfect client formula is you'd hang out with him for free. And I do. We do hang out despite the fact that he also still pays me. But you want to find out who is your Saunders. Who is the client that is absolutely perfect for you that if you duplicated them out 50 to 100 times, you'd be like, "This is amazing." That's who you build your entire business around. And that is probably a large reason as to why you had a record month when you did is because you onboarded the right people who paid in full. They did what you told them to do. It was Gucci. And as a result of that, I've attracted a lot of other people like Dan Henry, Brandon Carter, Ravi Abualla, Eli Wild, Brian Mata, Elliot Holse, Cody Gel. And as a hint, part of my success formula and why my clients come to me, at least that's why they tell me they come to me simply because on my onboarding form, I asked them, "What specific piece of content or concept or quote did you hear from me that made you go, hm, maybe I should work with this guy?" They're like, "You've worked with some of the biggest names in the industry. There's obviously a trend here. And so I continue to put these people in front of you in content like this because it's part of my success formula. You see how this works? It's not a guessing game. It is a formula. It's a recipe. What we need to do is extract the recipe that you already have because you've already had a record month. The problem is you didn't document it or if you did document it, you're not running it. So back to this template, we have cash collection as a category. What was your cash collection process or strategy? Did you have a payment recovery strategy? Did you only accept pay in fulls? Did you have payment plans? What was that process and strategy for you? How about on fulfillment? Who's on the team? What were you paying them? What was their call cadence? How did they check in with clients? Did they check in with clients? What was your client portal like? All of that matters. So for us, we host everything in a platform called Circle. And even though we have a lot of stuff in here, our clients have access to John AI, which is trained on everything in the portal. And it removes the need to have like a support coach. I literally don't require any support staff. A because I attract the right clients who don't need a ton of handholding. B, all of our resources are so leveraged and dialed because we've been doing this for so long and they're so data driven that you really only need to make one maybe two very very hyperargeted decisions and then my clients just kind of disappear for a month or two and just execute on that one bottleneck that's going to move the needle the most. And then what happens is they come back and they have a record month and we document the record month formula. But now there might be a new bottleneck of how do we get to the next level. And it's very systematic. It's very datadriven. It's why I've built the boardroom the way that I've built it. And that's why all of this is part of the success formula. And so many people will use human beings and client success managers to do what AI can do now. And so this is how we optimize our fulfillment as well as our clients fulfillment. But you already have some sort of a successful fulfillment process. So at the very least we want to establish your baseline so that we can build on it or delegate the things that are currently being handled by a human being or offload them, delete them, automate them. But we need to establish what is your baseline success formula because you've already proven it. So what were you doing in fulfillment? You put that here as detailed as you possibly can. How about for operations? What system were you using to manage tasks and stuff like that? First step is like for us part of my fulfillment and operations success formula is figuring out a way to have less and less tasks, not more and more tasks that require more and more people. And so that's part of my success formula is figuring out how do I have less moving parts. And that's how I'm able to do what I'm able to do and make the profit that I'm making and just about four to five hours a day with just me, a VA, a bunch of AI and automation and attracting the right clients. All of that has been documented for me and that's why I continue to do it and I'm able to strengthen it, which we'll get to in just a second. The most important part of this is coming up. How about for data and tracking? What were you using, if anything? Most coaches have absolute dog [ __ ] for tracking, if anything. And if they think they have good tracking, yet they're not growing. Then they don't have good tracking or they do have good tracking, they just don't know how to read data and make decisions with it. Most likely, it's a combination of both. It's pretty funny. A lot of our clients come to us after getting our Teddy tracking system and then they'll set it up. They'll think that's all they need and then they'll come to me and they'll be like, "Yeah, I'm using it, but we're still not growing." And then I will personally look at it and I'll be like, "Well, you're using it wrong because you didn't follow the instructions." Or they have their VA look at it and update it and they never actually look at it because that's an admin activity. I can tell you right now, if you don't know your numbers and you're not maniacal about them, you're absolutely screwed. Every single client I ever work with, every single one of our bulletproof boardroom members, they grow and make progress because they become maniacal about their numbers. I have other videos on the channel about exactly how we track data. You can check out this one right here, exactly how I track KPIs in my $10 million coaching business. I touch on it in a lot of these, but that one really goes in depth on what we track, how to track it, how to read data, make decisions on it. But right now, what was your process with your record month formula? Put that here. Accounting, who's on your team, what were they doing? What softwares were you using there? Now, it's not just a record month formula for the business. It's a record month formula for you personally. Because guess who's running the [ __ ] thing? You. So we need to understand what is our personal success formula that allows us to have the business have a success formula. So what was your routine and schedule during your record month formula? Who were you in a relationship with or were you in a relationship? What specific actions did we take with our partner? And this can be things that both directly or indirectly relate to the business. And this can be anything from as personal as you want to get, like how often are you having sex to how often are you going out on dates or whatever to how often are you discussing business stuff, right? What was that for you during your record month? Your personal life, any daily actions that you've taken during your record month. It's just anything you can think of that like, oh, you know what? I realized I was doing this during that time. Cool. Put it down there. Recreation, right? Were you going to the gym? Like I play golf, I play basketball, I go to the gym. I make sure to keep those things in my schedule because they're successful actions for me. They all contribute to this. You see how we're doing this here? Fitness and diet. What are you eating? Right? What are you doing for workouts, education, specific books, documentaries, trainings, masterminds, people that you learn from? Right? I've had clients that become clients end up leaving for one reason or another. their business goes downhill. They come back and they go, "You know, my best time in my business was when I was working with you, so now I'm coming back." And wouldn't you know it, once they come back, we get them back on track and they start growing again. It's what happens when you apply successful actions, mindset, and spirituality. What were you doing during this time? So, there's this book that I wrote called The Seven-Figure Mind Method. And the forward is written by uh a gentleman by the name of Dan Henry. Uh but there's a process in the back of it that basically helps you rewire your mind so that you can make better, more profitable decisions because as Warren Buffett says, if you can't manage your emotions, you can't manage money. And you can't be feeling and guessing your way through your business. You got to have objective decision-making and you got to be able to do the tough stuff. You got to be able to spend more on ads when the data says you got to spend more on ads. You got to be able to fire the team member even though they might be a friend and you might like them when their performance and the P&L says they're not contributing to the profit of your business. Most people hold on to people and processes and decisions that they've made for far too long because they're afraid to let it go or they resent the person or they feel guilty or they're letting their ego drive them. Which is why I made this last video that says your ego must die to scale in 2026. So that you don't unnecessarily hold on to stuff that's keeping you stuck. Most likely if you're already at 20, 30, 50, 100K a month, even 500K, even have a couple clients doing a million a month and beyond that, the reason that they get stuck is because they're holding on to the things that they're afraid to let go of to get to the next level. It's like holding on to anchors. And so, if you want to see what that process is like to release those anchors, you can check out this book. There's the link in the description as well. So, then back to our record month formula here. What was your main focus? What were the main things that you were focused on within your business during this period? Was there a main initiative? What was it? Go back. Look at your calendar. Look at your notes. Look at your journal if you keep one. Look at everything. Okay. Now, here is where the rubber really meets the road. We've got a lot of information that we've just dictated into this template. And between us, what you can do is you can take all of that information. You can copy and paste it into Claude or ChatgPT, whatever your LLM of choice is, and you can say, "I just rambled about all of the successful actions that I've taken in my business to lead to a record month and month and year, and I want you to take all of them and create a very simple, concise, step-by-step, bulletpointed playbook that I can easily scan to remind myself what are the successful actions that lead to my record months." Please make sure to include everything, but format it in a way that's easy to scan, easy to read, and easy to duplicate, as if I was going to hand it off to somebody and they had to get the result. Something of that nature. And I like to include things in the prompt that's like make sure every single bullet point is limited to I don't know how many characters, maybe a 100 characters. So, I don't know if you can see, they're very short bullet points here, but they do get the point across. And so you can see here, this allows me to be able to kind of scan this and then I highlight the main things that I want to keep top of mind as I flip through that usually like every day, every other day. I kind of just remind myself we want to look at as the most important part of this whole thing is what were the top three key drivers that specifically caused the upswing. So we did a lot of stuff. We've summarized it. That's all great. It's all part of the formula, but there's kind of the 8020 rule here. What was the 20% of actions that led to 80% of the results where if we didn't do everything else, if we just did these three things that we would have made massive progress. So maybe it's well you launched XYZ offer or whatever. If let's say that was the case, you identify what was the driver and then you ask yourself how can I strengthen it? This is very key because if we just run the same record month formula playbook, we'll effectively get ourselves into a position like this where okay, we had a record month super duper. If we run the same playbook, we'll kind of just go sideways here, right? So, we want all of these stats to go up and to the right continually ideally in a perfect world. So, how do we do that? Well, we have to identify the drivers and we have to strengthen it. So perhaps if you launched an offer, uh you do another launch of same offer, but you add some sort of an upgrade to it or maybe you change the conversion mechanism to make it more effective based on what you learned about the first launch as an example. Key driver number two, maybe it's you spent X number of dollars on ads. Well, how can you strengthen it? Instead of spend that number on ads again, maybe it's as simple as just increasing the ad budget, right? Maybe there was a person that you hired or a person that you fired or a process that you eliminated or a process that you added. Whatever that was, we want to identify it and we want to ask ourselves, how can we strengthen it? So, if you hired a person and they started crushing it in a certain area, maybe it's get them more training on that thing. Send them to a seminar or whatever. I don't know. You just want to ask yourself, how can I strengthen it? And so, what I then like to do is give myself it's kind of just the top three action items. Okay, based on all of this, I'm now going to do this, this, and this. That's it. And those become my initiatives. And this is how we plan. We don't plan by sitting around the table and go, "Joe, what do you feel like we should be doing?" We don't make business decisions based on feels. We make business decisions based on what made stats go up. We document what made stats go up. We find out what were the main drivers that made those stats go up. We document that [ __ ] And then we strengthen them and then run it again. And then we do the same thing over and over and over again. And that becomes our feedback loop. So, as I said, I want to give you that as a template. If you DM me on Instagram, just find me at bulletproof.j. And if if you just DM me, RMF1, my little Many Chat automation will send you that template. And if you just pair that with this video, you should have a really, really good start and a baseline to build off of. know that if you just run that playbook, you should probably have your stats improve. Let me know in the comments what your biggest takeaway was. And if you want to learn a little bit more about what it looks like to work with us, just find me on Instagram, DM me the word bulletproof. My Many Chat automation will send you all of the details. It's only me in there, not a setter or closer, not AI. You'll be able to see all the details, including pricing. And if you're not ready for that, you can check out this video that I made walking through the entire blueprint of how we get our clients to 50 to 100K a month in take-home profit. So, thanks for watching. Go ahead and check that out now and I'll see you over there.