Hey Steve, we're here. >> This is the Maldin home. You probably saw it on social, but did you know the full growth story behind it and how we got it from zero to 15,000 followers in 4 days? That's exactly what we're going to walk through in this episode. How we think about concepts, how we think about this idea of thinking in sets. What is the actual team that you need to be able to create a bunch of content at scale. I'm talking 30, 40, 50 pieces of content in just a few days. All things that we're going to dive into in this episode. Long story short, one of our our friends over at Malbin was like, "Hey, like we need social support for Malbin home, like are y'all interested at the Masters?" We ain't going We ain't going to say no to that. You know what I mean? >> You're pulling up to the Masters. >> Yeah, we're pulling up to the Masters. Uh, hands down. But the thing was he sent us that email like two weeks before the Masters, >> of course. >> Yeah. >> It's always like that. >> But he's always good about like timing and everything, but it was just like, "Hey, we have this big moment. This could be huge for us. Cool. We get on a call um and we start chopping through like, okay, what are the goals? What is what is it kind of like? What are the opportunities? We start thinking about all of that. Cool. The first thing I thought about was, well, you have we have Melbourne Buckets Club page, which is like a a tournament that they're putting on. Uh they do they do a competition every single month and different courses all around the US. We have that as a completely separate page. Now, what about like us doing a Malman homepage because like you were saying, it is better for it to be extremely targeted. New accounts are looking for for like very specific data to get you in front of the right person. So, I was like, hey, let's start a Min homepage. Let's let's think about it through the lens of like if you can't be at Melbourne home, you're still going to be able to experience Min Home through the content because we're going to put a [ __ ] we're going to put out a [ __ ] ton of content, but at the same time, the type of content that we're going to put out is not just going to be recap content. we're going to think about this content very strategically so it feels like the people are there and can experience it. >> I'm so glad you said that because the biggest observation I had was it felt like I was there. It felt like I was getting every s every single micro moment that was going on at the house was covered. And there's a lot of value in reverse engineering from the itinerary for your content, right? Like starting with like okay, what do we want to document? It's like we have this dinner. Okay, that's a piece of content like like kind of matching those things up in a way that I don't think a lot of people really it may sound super simple but in practice it's very hard to execute because you have to be very prepared with like the packaging of the dinner like what is the shot types for the dinner who you want to make sure you're capturing right >> the reality is the majority of brands will host an activation and walk away with that activation with a carousel of photos and a recap video >> yeah they have like one photographer on set and then like maybe a guy shouldn't even >> and they'll spend all this money on the activation and put out two pieces of content. It's such a miss when you think about all the opportunities that can come from that content, which is what I'm going to essentially break down. So, the first thing though is like with Malvin Home, the eyes around the masters and like the brand equity that Malvin already has. I wanted to go into it with okay, what is like a huge goal that we could like an outlandish goal that we can create or that we can have and aim to hit the entire time. And so what I told the team was like, I want to go 0 to 10K in in 4 days, you know, and can we make that happen? Okay, I'll give updates as I go. But basically, to be able to go 0 to 10 in uh 10K in 4 days, you have to have a plan. Like, you're not going into that just being like, we're going to publish everything and anything. And like you're not truly thinking through the through the content strategy. So the first thing that I thought about was, okay, I know I always talk about this, but it's the content narrative. Now, let me give the reason for it in this in this scenario. Malbin's content narrative is making the green the common ground, right? Their whole narrative as as a brand is to help more people that probably wouldn't have played golf play golf and feel like when they play golf that that they're included in Yeah. it there that it's more inclusive. Now for a mob and home because it's more temporary and and there is no greens. The idea was making the making the the home the common space. Okay. How can we create that same inclusivity at the Malbin home to the point where even if you're not there, you feel like you were invited was a goal. And so that was our northstar from a before we go into conceptualizing. And that's big for us because we think about that northstar is almost like the filter. If that is our north star, then are all of our content ideas like amplifying that north star. And so that was part one for for us was making sure that we use that as the guard rails for for all ideas. Okay. Part two was before we started conceptualizing, we had to think in sets. So you look at the Min. When you walk into the Min Home, um you're first in the back like depending on what entrance you come through, but let's say you come through the backyard. There's two gates. Come through the backyard. We now had to look at all of those the different areas within the Maldin home as as what has the ability to be a set where we can create ideas. Okay. So, you walk in and there was uh a bunch of kind of just like just table sets, right? That gave us the ability to do anything like miked up in that that area almost like classic 80s like lawn, you know, almost like uh like like backyard sets. There was four or five of them. Then there was uh a drinks table with Titos. There was an ice plunge area and like a like a warm almost like a warm tub as well. You walk in as you're walking up the steps there's um I forget what Travis Kelce's brand is but Garage Beer. Did you know even he owned a beer company? >> No. >> Yeah, I learned that there too. >> I kind of dropped off. I feel like him and his brother are plants now. >> I just don't trust it to be honest. >> After the master [ __ ] jumping in the water and all that. >> Yeah. I don't know. Before we get into the meat of the value of this episode and I and I break down everything that we did to help Malvin home get to 15,000 followers, please subscribe. Me and Brian have a huge and audacious crazy goal of trying to get to 100,000 subscribers by the end of the year. Uh we're far from it. In all reality, we're far from it. So, if you're right here, you hitting subscribe and adding a plus one to this to this goal is actually huge for us. As you could tell, we're in New York right now doing a bunch of guest episodes, trying to up the the production quality, the clips, all of it, just so that we can make this a better show for for you. So, please subscribe. >> I mean, it was kind of funny like, you know, to that point, I think one thing that Malvin did in a really excellent way was respect tradition. Like, and that's kudos to you guys. Like, you kept a lot of the prestige. you kept a lot of the association that the Masters has is like this very, you know, quiet, respectful but classy environment where people are having fun and like um, you know, meanwhile the Masters themselves let a lot of riff raff into this year's uh, tournament. You know, there was a lot of different like things that got really negative feedback on social from people. >> You were comparing it to Coachella. >> Yeah. It's like, why do you have like Kevin Hart running around like shanking golf shots on Augusta? like he like it used to be something where if you were Kevin Hart you also had to have difficulty to get a ticket you know like 10 years ago even it was it was difficult for celebrities they that was a thing that the Masters long time like longterm had was no matter who you are you got to go through the same raffle process you face the same consequences if you use someone else's ticket >> and this year is like you know they tried to fight it was like it was it felt like the freaking pro bowl you know on ESPN. It was like what are we doing? Meanwhile, Melvin Home was like >> very refreshing. You know, >> we wanted to keep the tradition with with all of it. >> So, the again thinking thinking through sets, it was like when you walk up the steps steps, Travis Kelce, Jason Kelly's garage beer brand, but there was like custom cigars. Cool. All those different areas could be a set if we could think about a good concept that that basically hits our check marks. You walk in, there was a kitchen, there was like a chef, always there was always food. There was a watch area. Then you walk in, you continue to walk in, there was a storefront, and then to the left of it, uh, Nespresso had like a little bar area or like coffee area. And then through there, then there was another kind of like seated area almost like front porch seating sitting and then two kind of like bar areas and then a really long pathway for the entrance. Okay. Now, what I mean by thinking sets is like we can look at all of these different locations in these like central spots and be like, can we build a concept here? Can we think about it no different than than this, right? Like this is a set. Can we look at this and be like, what can we do here? Right? What concepts can we come up with that allows us to basically say every day we're going to do something here? Every day we're maybe going to film two episodes here. And so that was the first part is like, okay, we're going to get a blueprint of the house. we're going to know exactly what we can we can look at operate with and then kind of reverse engineer the concepts from there. That's key. And so, especially when you're when you're thinking about an event and looking at all the different scenarios you could have an event, if like you have a big activation or if you're you're at an event and you're just like one of the sponsors, you could look at all the different areas that you can you can create content, right? And that changes your whole idea of like we need to leave with two pieces of content. We could leave with 15. Cuz if you think about it through the 3-day cycle or 3 days and you're like, "Okay, five sets that I can roll with. I could just make a piece of content in each one every single day. At the end of it, I have 15 pieces of content generating maybe hundreds of thousands or millions of views versus 10, you know, from your your carousel and your in your um your recap video. All right. So, over the last two years of building Nibble, shipping nearly 8,000 UGC ads and getting performance data on every single one of them, it became super clear there are two types of brands. those that understand creative volume and those that don't. The core difference was what they focused on. Brands that focused on volume plus hit rate were never complaining that Meta changed the algorithm. Their stuff just worked. And anytime we did work with one of those savvy brands, it was always on the same platform. Motion. Motion is by far the best tool to optimize your creative pipeline. Provide structure, visibility, and insights that your creative team needs to make better decisions. I like to think of it as like what Meta would actually show you if they cared about your success. all the key metrics like 3se secondond stop rate, winning angles, formats, competitor research. It's all built into their platform so you can make quicker and better decisions. They even just launched their new AI agent, runth, which functions as a 24/7 creative strategist providing recommendations to your ad account. Y'all make sure to go check them out at motionapp.com. All right, let's get back to the episode. I think like modular content is something people also need to really internalize. And when I say modular, it's like you just described it where, okay, I have a set and maybe it's the Nespresso set. So, I can now think in my set is the overall concept and what are the five different hooks that I can do with that set, right? Even though maybe the entire narrative of the video is like the same where it's like, yo, we had good coffee at Melbourne. It's that simple. But you can have a, you know, ASMR pouring of the coffee. You could have like someone putting it in. Like there's so many different visual hooks that can get you to the volume that you need. And I think people need to understand like there is no success without volume. Like you're simply not posting enough no matter who you are. >> Have you noticed that? Like while I've been here in New York, I've been posting like nearly three times a day. >> Yeah. I've been getting tagged in these things. >> Oh, that's true. You're welcome. You're welcome. No, I No, I mean Johnny's Johnny's been good. You know, we've had some photographer issues um in different way. No, you're doing well, bro. You're doing well. I need this coffee in a minute, though. >> He's over there working on the damn >> mic with a knife. >> You can't even see the coffee in the wide angle cuz it's around 7 ft that way. But, uh I just want to make sure. >> So, the third thing that you need to think about is you need to conceptualize with the idea of scalability. What I mean by that is when we think about concepts, you don't want to think about a concept that you could only execute once because typically a concept that you could only execute once means it takes a long time to be able to produce it. >> Right. Yeah. >> Right. And that especially in an event scenario where everything is very run and gun and even if you have the ability to set things up, it's still a little bit more run and gun in nature. You want to really think about things that you can set up, execute, and get a lot of. So an example is I'll give a few examples. When we thought about the store, we thought about it through the lens of two things. Lookbooks because it was a very like uh it was a very nice store and so we wanted to do like these split screens of um basically people that were wearing the Maldin fits in the Malbin collection of like they're in the corner and we almost do like a lookbook split screen where it's like wide angle and then macro shots of like the details. Cool. That was going to be like the more of the bottom of the funnel content, more so selling it and and highlighting the collection. The second thing was there's one guy on the Maldin team who's an absolute character. Absolute absolute character. And he was doing he was doing uh he was basically like checking everybody out at the store. So we miked him up and if you and and the whole goal of it was for it to not feel like a store but again feel like an experience because he made it an experience. Yeah. >> Right. Like yes the store was awesome. And they had like birds and or they had like all these like like fake birds and binoculars and like all these other details, but he's almost like what made the set the set because he was going in there and and I could have a video play, but the dude like he just thinks he's one of those guys that just like thinks so fast on his feet and he's just saying like >> some oneliners. >> He's saying the most ridiculous things and it was perfect for my and it wasn't again like it wasn't even content that we wanted to get 100,000 views. like awesome if it did, but it was content that was like after we had our top of funnel content bring you in, this is the content that like made you laugh, made you feel like you experienced it, right? So we when we think about the idea of of of conceptualizing with scalability, if we follow him around for an hour or two hours in the home, it's like, yo, we have five videos probably 10 videos probably. So that was that was one. The lookbooks was another. Then you know when we thought about I think our hit idea was letters from Augusta which was if you know about the traditions of the masters you can't bring your phone in there right and so therefore they have pay phones that allow you to call back home or call whoever you want you know and and just give them updates so we took that tradition and we basically put a spin on it at the beginning there's again us thinking in sets and scalability where we bought a we bought a phone a pay phone off Etsy old classic phone for a screen. We brought it to the house and we set it up like right at the entrance with a note on it. Basically a prompt that's like call whoever introduced you to golf and like leave them like a a voicemail. >> Yeah. >> Okay. We put that at the front of the house. So as soon as people walked in, they were hit with this prompt. And then we had Randy um like if if the if we look at the this is the home, right? At a long hallway like this. this or not hallway but just like long walkway. Home was here. Steps were right here. We put the pay phone or the the phone right here. Randy was like basically hidden in the bushes here. And like we we had some elements that also made it feel like the camera was hidden. Like we put the bushes in the foreground of the the frame. So it felt like like they weren't, you know, like it was almost a little bit secretive and they didn't know we were here. Okay. Anybody that like there was two parts to it. Anybody that was pro like was intrigued by it and saw the prompt hit it. We were recording. We just we just had Randy literally pressing the button. Press record. Stop. Record. Stop. >> Oh, so you weren't you weren't soliciting people. They were doing it naturally. >> That was part one. >> Yeah. >> Part two was, "Yo, J.R. Smith's here." >> Yeah. >> J.R., can you leave a message? >> Right. >> And he's like, he picks it up. He goes, Moses Malone. And we're like, this is viral. >> That's crazy. >> He literally picks up and goes, Moses Malone. And I was like, this is this is wild. And so like that gave us dude we filmed in at the end of the day we had 25 episodes. >> Yeah. >> 25. >> Yeah. >> The editor was texting or I won't say Nick was texting us and was like yo I'm done for the night. I'm cooked with these. I'm 25 in and just sends them all. Like I was like dude went absolutely crazy on on all them. >> When did he send that? Like that must >> like one or two in in the morning. One or two in the morning. >> I mean talk about the quick turnarounds too, right? I'm going to get there. Like on the team side of it, >> feel like that's something that, you know, is really difficult to execute and your process is probably going to be super valuable for people to think about. >> We're halfway through the playbook. If you want this full playbook, I actually wrote it all down. I put it into an entire case study and essentially newsletter that you can download, a full playbook that you can copy with more lessons, more frameworks that you can use to be able to do this, not just at any event or activation, but overall with with your entire content strategy. If you want it, it's in the link in the description. and you can download it. It's yours. So, I'll finish the scalability part where for that you really just need to be able to think in something that gives you the ability to do a lot of it very fast and there is minimum friction. We set that up and it like the nature of it allowed a lot of people to do it without a lot of time being needed. You know, like Victor Cruz comes in. Victor, we need 20 seconds. >> Great golfer. >> Great golfer. We need 20 seconds. The miss was, and this is this is like we want to talk about L's, we should have ordered like [ __ ] three phones just so that we could have had it. Like we didn't get the phone. It didn't arrive until the last day. >> So we had J.R. we had Victor, but the days before we had Derell Wright, we had Dwayne Wade, right? Like we had all of these people that we could have >> and the DW one would have gone crazy. >> That was the day we had the dinner. So, it's like we had all the superstars there at the dinner that we could have done it with. Um, >> so that was the miss, you know, but you live and you learn. We should have we should have got uh we should have got more phones. >> There'll be a masters next year. >> Yeah. >> Oh, the US Open. >> We're going to the US Open. But that concept at the US Open doesn't make sense. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. >> So, we have to figure out like a a completely different concept. Um, another concept that hasn't gone out yet was we did a and this one was This one was funny. We did um how to dress for the Masters with School Boy Q >> cuz he was he was there the entire time. >> You can rock a bucket hat >> at the Masters, right? >> I rocked it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Um >> at the Turney. >> No, I I don't know if you could rock at the attorney. >> Yeah, it seems like a No. >> I don't know. But School Boy did like this whole We That was another one that we thought of like we used the whole store as a set to like how to dress for the Masters with with School Boy Q. And it was like he opened up the the first line. is like, "What's up, bitches?" And he just like goes right into it. It was It was [ __ ] phenomenal cuz he's a character. Absolute character. All right. The fourth thing that you need to think about is executing stations. So, you're doing all of this and just think about it all through the lens of stations, right? Like Randy, you got station one, station one's letters from Augusta, Val, uh McCoy, you have station two and three. Station two is going to be lookbooks and and mic uh miking mking up the the the store team. Cool. That is that's station number two. Station number three is going to be in the backyard and we're going to be doing we had all all sorts of different concepts we were trying out in the backyard. But like that is station three. You're going to execute all of those. Cool. That gives you the ability to shoot and drop and then also organize based on what was shot by who, which is also a huge huge part of the entire thing is like if we're all dumping random footage and I can't tell you like everything I captured, it's going to when we're talking about speed at at something like this, it is so much harder to execute if it's not organized. But if Randy comes in and drops everything is like, "Yo, this is all letters from Augusta." Val comes in and goes, "This is all lookbooks and this, this, this." and they organize it, categorize it. Then on the timeline, it's 10 times easier to be able to edit and get those things out the door. So executing the stations is not only from an efficiency standpoint from the actual production, but it's also huge from the organization point for the editors that are going to be working on the the footage. The fifth thing is collab when you can. anytime you you know typically with like at least the brands that you and I have worked with is like there are going to be celebrities or influencers coming through be very aware of who they are and when something comes up like push to have it done you know what I mean like Charlie Hall was there and we didn't have content originally mapped out with her we planned or as soon as we saw her and we were like hey she's here for 20 minutes doing a signing we're like can we get her for 2 minutes right and Dwade was there cool what can we do with Wayade, Victor Cruz is there. Cool. What can we do with them? So, you have to be able to think on your feet and think or or also think about like how you could just leverage them to get them in your content because if the content is good enough, they'll collab with it, right? Like J.R. hasn't collabed on anything. This was his best piece of content in the last two or three months, right? Because it was an awesome piece of everything of his has been getting 20 to 30,000 views. This got him hundreds of thousands of views, right? Right? And so it's like a great piece of content for him, but at the same time, you have to just be able to like have that person that can go to be like, "J, you mind doing this for 20 seconds?" Chances are they're going to say yes. So like think about that as especially when you're trying to grow as fast as possible as just bridges. How many bridges can I build? The more bridges I could build into my ecosystem, the the chances are I'm going to be able to succeed a a lot faster. >> I think I think you made a good point, too. I mean, it's something that we think about with guests, right? is like how do we get a bigger guest? And it's by set design, a fire clip. Like it's it's basically like how do you make the guest look good? You know, that's >> why >> a lot of the central philosophy >> today didn't happen. >> Yeah. >> Low key. It was like the the person that was doing the scheduling was just like we just want to use like a boring set. Like he was like, >> yeah, >> let's just do this pod set. And I'm like, no. Like that's just not us. >> Out of the box. >> Yeah. Like that's I don't want to roll that way. >> Yeah. If you've seen Herozi on that set, we can't be there. >> It literally has a picture of Hormosi in it. >> I knew exactly which one it was cuz I've almost got booking that. Yeah. Production quality. I mean, it just especially in today's day and age, like you have to like really differentiate yourself on the feed. Like I think people are starting to get a little numb to like similar backgrounds. I mean, it also you you don't want to blend in with slop, right, in any way. So, yeah. So going into the the last few is the other thing you need to think about if you are trying to grow right if you're trying to leverage an event to grow top of funnel middle of funnel. >> The top of funnel content was like what has the ability to cast the widest net and really has the ability to like get eyeballs from the masters on us. Okay. >> Which which is really like pure entertainment value like anyone associated with golf. But like I mean that J.R. Smith thing like I'm sure some of those letters from Augusta that could just touch someone who had a bond with their parent. Yeah, bro. There was people crying. There's people in the in the comments just being like, >> so it's it's inherently like a very large TAM that you can go after with that. >> Extremely large TAM. >> Now, the middle of the funnel content in this case isn't about product. It's not about the brand as in like trying to teach somebody about the brand. It was all about can we make you feel as if you were there without being there. It was hey, the the Malbin is doing uh bird watching. We're going to send somebody out. We're going to mic up the the guy who is doing teaching the bird watching. We're going to mic up the people that are there and make you feel like you got to go bird watching with us. We had three videos go out for bird watching. Probably got cumulative like 40 50,000 views across all of them. Fine. The people were in the comments like being like, "Yo, this is the dopest thing. This guy's hilarious. He's a character." D like they felt as if they were bird watching. We had Tai Chi. We made them feel as if they were doing Tai Chi with us. We had cold plunges. make them feel as if they were they were doing cold plunges with us. Run club, same thing. Like it wasn't just recap of the thing. It was moments within the the event or the activation or the scenario that you would have only seen if you were there, right? Like hearing a like one of the clips that I don't remember the name of the bird, but like a noise goes by and the guy goes, "You hear that long long feathers? Cockasp." It just like says some crazy [ __ ] right >> now. Y'all already know we are super skeptical on this show about most AI tools promising the world. They have flashy demos, huge promises, and ultimately underdel. But I do have to tell you about one that has blown me away and saved my team countless hours of time, and that's Rich Panel. Imagine a 24/7 customer support engine that handles all of your tickets seamlessly, escalates anything requiring human intervention, and here's the best part, upsells your customers in the process. Their onboarding process is frankly one of the craziest things I've ever seen. You input your brand and within 15 minutes it has full context on the latest drops, product information, and plugs into all of your apps. That's not even to mention the cost savings. They're like three times more affordable than their competitors. I couldn't recommend this enough. So, if you're a brand looking to turn support into an asset, go check out richpanel.com and tell them we sent you. >> And then he like points at somebody else. He's like, "What is it?" And the guy's like, "A crackle." And he's like, "There we go." And and then he starts off the clip. is like, "Forget everything you've thought about you or forget everything you thought you knew about birds." It's like, "Dude, the dude was such a character." But again, like it made you feel like you were like you were there. You know what I mean? Like even the some of the golfing stuff that like we did with DWade, it was made to feel like you were there golfing with him, him talking [ __ ] him like not hitting it well and being like, you know, like complaining, whatnot. It wasn't supposed to just like make the brand feel cool. It was again made to make the brain feel accessible which was which was huge. Now the last thing is don't follow all the above when creativity strikes. Not throw all that [ __ ] out the window when you have a good idea or a moment where you're like ditch everything. We need to be creative right now. And I'll give you scenarios. Um, Logic's create or Logic's DJ was there, which is his name is Redk. >> Logic like the >> the rapper. >> I don't want to die. >> Yes. >> I don't want Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> How's he doing? >> No idea. >> Did he make it past that phase? >> I think he made it past that phase. He made it past that. >> I was worried about bro for a second. >> So, Logic's DJ was there. His name is Rhetoric. Ric had like a little space in the corner where he's just like doing tunes the entire time. I go on Redk's page and I see that he had this copy on a oneshot video that he did where it was like imagine walk or imagine driving down something lane listening to this before the masters, right? Something along those lines. I see him and I knew he was like setting up and so there was a little bit of time before he was fully set up. I'm like, "Yo, can we do this shot where we're gonna have your DJ step on the steps?" Because this was day one. So, we wanted to almost like introduce it as we're kicking off Mob Home. And so I was like, can we do something where like is well first is this portable? Yes. Cool. Can we do something where your set like your DJ set, your mixer is on the steps at the beginning? We're going to be across the street and you're going to walk from where you would be to the front of the house outside, sit down, get your mixer and start playing and then like do the same beat and we're basically going to recreate your video that just went viral. >> Yeah. >> But with a little bit of Min Home twist. >> Right. So, we're across the street. We The way we could see is like we can almost shoot through the the gate and the door. So, as he's walking, we're like doing a soft zoom, soft zoom. He comes he uh comes into frame, sits down, starts doing his beat, and he's just sitting on the steps DJing, right? And like the aesthetic is the mall at home. It's like it's beautiful. Okay. And so we we do we rip that. That video gets five to maybe 700,000 views, like in that ballpark, right? like absolutely rips. But there's nuances that we got to talk about. So the first thing is like the aesthetic is beautiful. The mall at home is is beautiful. Two, we start in action where he's already walking towards the camera, right? And then the idea of like picking up a a mixer on steps is a little odd. >> Weird, >> right? And then he starts DJing on just steps, right? And so all of these elements played into the idea. That's that was one of our top of funnel ideas. But again, that wasn't that's not something we could have planned. You had to know like we didn't know rhetoric was going to be there. Cool. Rhetoric was there. We thought about like the where it could be shot, how we're going to put people in a frame, the actions. Cool. That was one before that, like 20 minutes before that, again, talking about speed. Um Steven wasn't busy, right? And so I was like, Stephen, let us use you for for one shot. And so we wanted to kick off like day one of Maldin Home. This video I think got 200,000 views. And the idea started as same spot that we shot for rhetoric. Eric or uh Steven's just going to walk into frame, walk through the gate and walk into the house just to be like we're kicking things off. That's level one. How do we take this up to like level three of creativity? Cool. Hey, Mike. Can you go get a cigar and sit on the steps right in front of the gate and smoke a cigar at 9:00 a.m., right? And like have a bunch of smoke in there. Cool. Mike, you do that. Then there's this other guy uh uh Johnny, what was his name? Mort. Mr. Mort. Yeah. This this guy Morai who's like this like fanatic masters guy, big following. >> Yo, can you be like as soon as he walks through the gate, can you just be like snacking? Right. And like as soon as >> So you're introducing action and like kind of Easter eggs in the background. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And >> it makes it feel like a live environment. >> Exactly. So he's over there doing like he's over there eating something. Just like throwing down some food. Cool. Stephen, as soon as you You're going to start right here. You're going to walk right into a frame. As soon as you walk into frame, just walk by Mike. Dap him up. Don't even like pay attention. Just like smooth dap them up. Keep walking through. See more. Dap him up. Walk through. As soon as you get into the house, clean your feet because of golf. And keep it moving. Yeah. Right. So Stephen's a character too, bro, because like love Stephen. Even if he's not really doing something, he's like, "I'm busy. I got stuff to do." And he he like he looks at Randy. He's like, "You locked in? All right. Camera locked. We're rolling." And just like goes, >> "Yeah, >> bro." Hits the one thing and just kept it going. Like didn't even like see if it was it was good or not. He didn't even look back. He just kept it. Like if you watch the clip, he walks through all the way through the house and just like never came back. >> Right. So, >> I mean, he built the brand on like aura, you know, just built it on having some aura. >> Dude's a character, bro. Like, I got funny stories of like I could tell in a second, but like walks in or he we hit frame, dab, punch, clean feet, rolls through, that was the clip, right? If we would have done level one, hey, Stephen, can you just walk in? Boring. But a like a [ __ ] just like smoking a cigar at 9:00 a.m. and then somebody just snacking. It adds these layers where it's like, why is that guy smoking? Okay, I got you for 3 seconds. Why is that guy just snacking? Got you for another 3 seconds. Stephen cleans his feet. What the hell? Like it gives all these elements that just compound. Then the last one that and that one got I think I I'd have to look, but I think 200,000 views. The next one I think this one got a million was Charlie Hall was there. Do you know who that is? Golfer. She's like number four in PGA Tour for golf. She's an absolute dog, >> right? She just signed a deal with on I think it is like the pouches. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. >> Uh like the nicotine pouches, but they were doing a an ashtray giveaway. I don't know if you saw the mall ashtray. It goes crazy. >> Um they were doing an ashtray giveaway where she was signing it and and you know we were we were going to give it away. That was another thing. Giveaways were a part of the growth process as well. >> Have to have that mechanism. >> Yeah. And so for Charlie, we were like, "Hey, can we get Charlie for 2 minutes?" And and Connor was like, "Yeah, we can have her for two minutes, but she needs to be able to sit down, do the idea, and like be gone." So I was like, "Cool." And she was he was like, "Well, we can't do anything with smoking because she's just she's trying to stop smoking. She just signed a deal with an A's trying to >> What was she smoking before? >> She was just smoking. >> Smoking hits." >> Sig. Yeah. Supposedly she's just a person. She'll be like on >> she French >> golf, I think. So yeah, I think she's on the golf course just smoking sigs, bro. And so what we had her do was like, "Look, Charlie, you're going to be sitting down at like these. You're going to be at the Malbin home. Your Malin home's going to be in the background. We're going to shoot this way. We're going to have like the umbrella in in frame. So it's like a vibe like you would be smoking a cigar. And you're going to basically take it out of your mouth as if you just took your last puff." And she like takes it out. She looks at she goes, "I'm done with this." and like puts it down and just like signs the thing and like pushes it away like she's done with it. Right, bro. First off, we're lucky we got it off. Her agent came in as soon as we finished film is like and like block cameras and like what are you doing and then she looked at us like what is this for? And we're like for Mbin like she's like she can't be smoking. She just signed a something you know seven figure deal with on and we're like no like it's kind of like part of the bit. So we had to go to an and be like hey are you okay with this? And they were like, "Yes, because it says like I'm done with this." Right? But that was just like an idea of what's her story, how can we leverage this and what can we do that's not just like a photo of the ashtray. That video like >> it's easy to see. >> You get a collab post with her as well. >> Yes. So it's easy to see. Okay. She has 800,000 followers. Of course, it's going to go viral. All her clips before that got 100,000 views. Maybe at top like 200,000 views for weeks. This one's at probably 900 to a million views, if not more by now, right? And so it's like this like 7-second moment that has the ability to like people know her as a smoker. They know she's trying to quit. We just told this micro story and we added in all these different actions that keep you pressed on the video. >> I mean, it's all about compressing a story. like you you set up conflict resolution like you really are able to tell a lot in seven seconds even though a lot of people just get overly winded you know and it's like >> the last thing I'll say is cuz from a team perspective how do you execute this depending on right like everybody's budget and and everybody's team it's a bit different but like if you have two videographers awesome right like that that gives you the ability to do a lot but you need a dedicated editor that is the the key element here so like you have to have a war room where you drop footage, they know the the concepts, they know exactly what they need to edit and they you drop it to them and they're able to get that edit out in basically like an hour, hour and a half. Okay, so we had that and you have the briefs there. They know they know the briefs. Now, the other thing that you need is a director essentially, somebody that is going around and like checking all the boxes of like, cool, that frame's good. We're going to do this concept here. Get this person. Get them to do this. It's like almost someone that's like just managing the show the entire time, right? And then like doing those, you can execute this entire playbook. Have someone organize and like some have somebody run the show, have the cinematographers like shooting the show, and then have somebody editing the show. You do that, you're fine. The more people you can continue to add on, like more shooters, more editors, the more you're just going to be able to pump out, right? That is um that's a reality reality of this. We've done it multiple times with like tier two was the first time. It was like a big learning lesson. I >> was going to say I remember uh that was like your tier games, right? A couple years ago. >> Yeah. It was like the tier cup. Yeah. And it was it was relatively the the same thing. Now what was cool was we hit 10K in 3 days. That was the wild step. >> Then we ended the entire Melbourne home activation at 15K and probably 5 to 10 million views. The funny part was, bro, I wasn't even tracking views on TikTok, so like I knew these were getting published. I then see the cool, there was two cool parts. There was people like writing about the Min Home [ __ ] left and right about like the content, how it felt, whatever. Awesome. But they kept sharing the Tik Tok videos and like the Tik Tok screenshots. And I'm like, "Oh, let me look." So, I'm looking and I'm like, "Oh, J.R.'s thing, bro. It has 400,000 views on Tik Tok. It has another 200,000 view. Like that's 600, then Victor Cruz, and then the other ones. And bro, like all in all, it was just it was a it was a hell of a success. But it really came down to like the planning of it >> and then thinking in the moment. You got to have the ability to not fold under pressure and be able to think in the moment. And that's something I'll stress to anyone is like, it's so easy to be like, "We got to check this off the book. We got to check this off the book." And like freak out if you don't. Our most viral videos came from not having them outside of like letters from Augusta. Came from not having it in the book and thinking on the spot and then being like that's a good idea. Let's make it 10 times better. >> You could spend two minutes with two people, three people and make an idea 10 times better cuz somebody's going to be like what if we add the zoom? What if we add this action? What if it's XYZ thing? And all a sudden the idea just got significantly better. So that's my random Min. It was fun as [ __ ] The energy in Augusta is crazy. >> Yeah. >> Is crazy, bro. >> I mean, that's a all time alltime sporting event. I feel like uh that could have been like Did you all get Did you get a write up? You should like get some press. >> Like I feel like you could actually kind of get someone to cover this in like ad age or like one of those like you know boomer like magazines. Yeah. Hopefully they're not watching this and I just call them boomer. But like seriously like that I mean >> I should >> cuz it is kind of modern thing. I told Johnny today like I wanna I don't know why I haven't made a video about it. >> Yeah. >> You know, like >> for sure. >> What a miss. >> Yeah. Well, >> huge miss. >> I mean, what we we still in April. >> Yeah. >> I don't know when they'll be seeing this episode, but um >> but no, I'm I'm going to hit some stuff today about it because I'm like I should have, you know, I should have >> for sure. >> Um >> and it's also like you had a great outcome. Like I I feel like you can leave with like some pretty impressive stats. Name drop plenty of people like all sorts of stuff. >> Yeah. >> Well, that's a wrap on this episode. I almost forgot how to end these damn things, bro. >> Yeah, bro. Just leave a review. >> Hey, if you're on YouTube and you found it, subscribe. We need how many? 82,000 subs. >> We're getting there. >> Slowly but surely. >> Yeah, >> please subscribe. We got about seven months. >> Yeah. Um, no, we'll catch youall next week. Uh, got a lot of fun guest episodes coming and um, yeah, stay tuned.