This is my inbox. There's 30 emails in there and it's 2:00 p.m. That's crazy. That never happens. And what's crazy about this is I've hit inbox zero for 13 weeks in a row. That is literally never happened before in my life. And Codex has just like completely changed how I'm able to process information that come into my email. It allows me to spend less time on stuff that like scheduling and stuff that I would procrastinate on and more time on doing like fun creative projects like building more stuff with Codex. I want to show you how I do it. So, basically what happens is I have a long-running thread called inbox. And what people don't really know about Codex is it has an in-app browser in it. And what that allows you to do is do all of your work. Any work that you would do in a browser, you can do it in Codex over here. And then you have an agent that you can bring to all your work. So, you're going back and forth and collaborating with this super smart agent that has access to your computer, access to all your apps, access to everything it might need to get work done. And it's sitting with you on any app that you want to use. And in this case, this is actually an app I built. So, the other cool thing about Codex is it can just make stuff. Like I just vibe coded this app that lets me do my email with Codex. So, let me explain how it works. So, basically a few times a day Codex will sweep through all the emails in my inbox. And for each email, it will give me a little card. The card looks like this. It tells me a little bit about the email. It lets me see the email if I want. And Codex also drafts a reply. And what I can do is I can just say, "Hey, can we actually maybe I'd like to meet with Doug near my office. Can we propose somewhere in Brooklyn?" And see if he's okay with that. And now I'm on to the next email. So, new card, new scheduling thing. And now we can just keep going. Here's someone who's asking for sponsorships. He wants to sponsor every It automatically drafts a reply to the right person. I can say, "This looks good." Now we're on to the next one. Now, someone else who I want to make an intro for. I can just say, "I already made the intro. You can archive this one." Next card. And here it's Greg Eisenberg. We're we're scheduling a Codex walk-through and it already gave me schedules that it has access to my calendar, so it can propose times. This is it's crazy. Like all the stuff that I would normally procrastinate on cuz I have to look at my calendar or I have to go look up a bunch of documents and propose a reply. Codex just does it and I just scroll through my email and and talk to it and then it goes and does it. And what's cool is the way that I built this, it's just a list of feeds. All of the information I care about, so this is for my inbox, but there's other stuff. So I have this company feed, which I keep in a separate Codex thread, so I can deal with it separately. And what the company feed does is it gathers everything that's happening in the company. Remember, it's a 30-person company, there's meetings all the time, there's slacks everywhere. It gathers all the stuff that's happened in meetings that have been transcribed and put in Notion. It gathers everything from Slack and then it just gives me a bunch of cards of stuff that I might be into. And so basically each card has a status. So it's stuff I need to look at, it's stuff that Codex needs to do, it's stuff that's Codex is currently working on, or it's stuff that we've already dealt with. And all I have to do to get through my inbox or any other feed of information I care about is review everything in to review and queue it for Codex and Codex takes care of the rest. So I can be like, okay, we're talking about positioning for every and how we want to do our plans. There's a debate going on internally for Quora. There's a debate going on about whether we use the word archive or mark as done. And I'm kind of into the mark as done category. Can you just tell Brandon and Kieran that I vote for mark as done? Yeah. And now it's just going to go do that. And these are meetings or slacks that I'm not in. And what I can do is I can just say, okay, execute. And it's going to go take all of the work that I just did. I can do the same thing for inbox. It's going to go to take all the work that I just did and it's going to send out the emails, it's going to do the research, it's going to do whatever I want. What's amazing about this is all these decisions get recorded. So it's all recorded on my file system. It knows for any given email what did I say to do? Did I say this is interesting? Did I say archive it? Did I draft a reply? And and it gets better over time. So, I compound my learnings. And you can see that these are the prompts that I use. And Codex maintains all this. Basically, it just watches what I do, and then it just gets better over time every time I do this at getting a prompt that's better at finding things I might be interested in, archiving or hiding things I don't want to see, and then figuring out, "Okay, what's the right next action for this thing?" So, it's just incredibly powerful. So, how can you do this yourself? One, use Cora. cora.computer will have a flow like this that's just built out. So, you can just do any of this inside of Codex as a Codex native app. We're going to have that coming out in the next couple months. So, cora.computer or subscribe to every if you just want to be notified when all of this stuff comes out as it progresses. But, if you want to do this yourself, okay, let's say how how would I do this? Honestly, just go into Codex. And let's see, I'm going to just use Monolog here. Okay, I want you to help me make a inbox sweep app. And here's how it should work. It should connect to my email. You can either use the Cora CLI or Gmail. Either one should work. For every email that's in my inbox, I want it to create a card that shows me what the email is about and then proposes a next action, whether that's a draft or any other thing that makes sense. And then it should allow me to just like swipe through my email or scroll through my email and just get through my email just by talking to each card. And what I want it to do is I want it to track every single step in the process. And it should be Codex native. So, what that means is I want the app to be responsible for the state. So, all the state should be on the file system. And I want the app responsible for rendering the view, but it should be built to be used inside of Codex in the in-app browser. Can you just build that end to end? I want you to set a goal with an unlimited budget. And make sure the goal is really detailed and you have a set of validation steps where you step through it yourself to make sure that it works. So, I'm just going to say something like that, which is pretty basic. And there may be some things in there that you don't understand, but that's totally fine. We'll give you this prompt in the show notes so you can just paste that in there yourself. And what I'm going to do is I'm just going to press go. And Codex is on auto review mode. I'm on 5.5 with extra high. That's probably what you want to do for this kind of a experiment. But what's really great about Codex is it's going to set itself a goal. And the goal, you can see this, it's like build an end-to-end Codex native inbox feed app in in my folder the after connect to email after the best available local path preferring the core of CLI. And I can just leave it. I'll come back and it's going to be something very similar to this app. That's what's so powerful about it. It's taking something that used to require a lot of time and a lot of engineering and making it available to you regardless of your level of technical skill. So, that's the video. It's a quick one for you today. If you want more, you should check out our compound engineering workflow. We'll put it up here. It's going to tell you everything you need to know about using compound engineering, our engineering philosophy that builds stuff like this whether you're technical or non-technical. And you should subscribe to Every. Every is the only subscription you need to stay at the edge of AI. You can think of us as like a frontier AI lab for the future of work. Like all we do all the time is explore how to take these models and these products and use them to do better creative work whether that's writing or coding or design. And we put that into our videos, into our newsletter that comes out every day, into our products that we make like Cora, Monologue. You've seen some of them today. So, if you love this video, you should definitely subscribe. every.to/subscribe.