World building is one of the most important concepts in modern marketing because the world of identity and media has radically changed over the last decade. [music] Marketing used to assume a communication between the buyer and the seller, which made sense for a single transaction. But increasingly, products [music] are sold on identity. Worldbuing treats everyone like they're a character in a brand's movie. [music] And that's just not you viewing that brand's film. You're a participant in it. We're all actors in their world. We're using their props. We're shaping what that story looks like. It's [music] fun, it's compelling, and it works. But how do you actually do this? So, in this video, Scott and I are going to go through brand examples, principles from both brand building and from film to share the process, share examples, share things that we've worked on and things we respect that can help you really understand world building. Let's lock in. So, when we talk about world building, there's a brand that never ceases to come up and that brand is vacation. And so, I know you have a relationship there. You understand the brand. Talk to me a bit about that. What's your history with them? And let's dive into it. I'm very fortunate to be an adviser and an investor in vacation which is how I got to know them. Um and even before then was a fan. &gt;&gt; What struck me from the beginning is uh is the setting right it is it's a world and I believe that that concept of setting is important to understand in context of world building. Yeah.

What are your thoughts there? What do you think of that setting they've built &gt;&gt; to understand the setting of vacation? Let's understand the psychology first of the category. Right. So sunscreen, right? That was that was one of their first products and that's what the brand is known for. And sunscreen has changed a lot over the last 50 years. &gt;&gt; True. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So sunscreen used to be about fun in the sun. It used to be about play. It used to be about the beach. It used to be about togetherness. Kind of having a wild time. And then sunscreen became about health and safety. And it became clinical. It became about protection, UV radiation, the fear and the efficacy, right? That all took over the sunscreen category. And then like so many categories, it was upgraded and brands traded up into beauty. So, how do you make the package smaller? How do you make the margins bigger? How do you sell it in more and more fancy doors? and how do you put it in a really slick looking package that almost becomes part of your skinincare routine versus going out into the wild and having fun in the sun and vacation asked well what would it look like to make sunscreen fun again and represent that fun in the sun and so the world of vacation the setting that they've built is to transport you to the time when sunscreen was about having fun and so they made a whole bunch of creative decisions to transport port you to that setting visually, aesthetically with photographs.

It lives in this kind of dreamlike world from the late '7s to the late8s where there was club med and digital cameras weren't something that everyone carried around. Cameras were something you take on vacation and you'd shoot a lot of photos where you wanted to have memories. And so the brand world of vacation is very much rooted in vacation photography from middle-class Americans that are going down to the Caribbean or down to the Gulf Coast, right? Or hanging out in San Diego. One of my favorite thinkers, investors, Charlie Mer has this quote, take something and take it seriously. And world building is all about taking it really seriously. &gt;&gt; They took it extremely seriously. So, you could take something and say, "Okay, well, we're going to we're going to use a little bit of inspiration from packaging in the '7s or the '8s, but of course, like we're going to have a modern website and we're going to, you know, print the packing slip with a normal font or really just think through one element of it." But what vacation does is no, no, no, how do we take this to an 11 out of 10 in in terms of transportive world building? And so, for instance, one of the ways they did that was they found someone's Flickr profile, a uh a dad who had taken photos of his family on vacation through the 80s and '9s and happened to scan them and upload them to Flickr. And they ended up licensing that material, that photography, so that they weren't just using AI or trying to recreate, you know, slick photo shoots, but origin of the brand.

They said, "How do we actually take this family that had documented their vacations and make that part of our lore and build our visuals around that?" So, they had this whole mosaic of visual material to work from and layer on. &gt;&gt; And I love that uh that idea of taking it seriously across everything is really important. I remember one of the most interesting things I felt they did was when they launched in Target, you saw all even the Target advertisements still lived 100% within that world. Taking something that seriously is something so few brands are like willing to participate in. I feel like that's what's required to build as we're talking about. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Because in a movie, you have great actors who are character actors or method actors, right? Method actors, they don't break character when the director says cut. They keep it going and they commit to the bit. And worldbuilding brands commit to the bit. &gt;&gt; I agree. And I like uh the example of pulling from that Flickr account is a good example. This idea of citizens of a brand's world. Okay, we are whether we're a consumer, whether it's an influencer, whether it's a founder, member of the brand, there are people that exist within that. I would love to hear your thoughts on that concept. &gt;&gt; Well, traditional brands will grow by distribution. They'll grow by promotion. Worldbuilding brands build by initiation. They grow through inviting people to be members of that story and members of cast members of that movie.

And so to use vacation as an example again, they made a really important creative choice at the very beginning around their email list because when you sign up for a brand's email list, you get an email that says, "Are you sure you want to opt into what might be years and years of spam in the future &gt;&gt; 15% off?" Yeah, exactly. &gt;&gt; And so what vacation did was, you know, instead of subscribe to our email list, they said, "Well, do you want to be a junior executive in the vacation corporation?" And if you want to be a junior executive in the vacation corporation, sign up for your summer job here. You put your email in, put your name in, and not only do you get an email saying you're on the list, but you got a business card, an image, a JPEG of a business card that had a randomly determined title of your functional role as an executive in the vacation corporation. So, I'm the head of nautical matters. Some people are shrimp boat captain architects. other ones are inflatable pool toy mechanics. And so everyone has this kind of mad lib title of what they exist in the in the vacation story. And so that gives people now permission to play the role even further. So you'll find people commenting on their LinkedIn posts about well as the junior executive responsible for my Thai concoctions, I for one am really happy with this new product introduction. And on the other hand, in terms of committing to the bit, vacation, they don't just communicate like a brand in the normal world.

They very much tongue-in-cheek on a 10 out of 10 basis communicate as the quote world famous vacation corporation. And they exist at a time in the 80s when corporate was cool, right? The Patrick Baitman uh calling card and the the the rise and the ascent of the Yepy. Since then, corporate isn't cool anymore. People don't want to work in offices. They don't want to work in cubicles, right? It's all counterculture. Everyone's got their side hustle. The vacation again transport you back to a world where the HR department wasn't trying to be cool and hip and they're communicating in very technical corporate language that becomes highensity. It becomes funny because at the end of the day, you have these two polar opposites. a very serious buttoned up formal corporation that is all about fun in the sun. &gt;&gt; I think uh from brands often look at something like vacation and they go there's no way we could build that we couldn't go all in. They've already taken that '8s idea and I think one of the first exercises is just looking at that vernacular right what that exercise the first email does is it points you into all the words that build the brands shrimp captain pool toys etc. I feel like almost any niche can be in that. I look at um my my friends at Air did something similar like a generator. You could put your picture in, it would give you a meme, but it was in their language. All the language of creative direction and people that are like overly online or have that ambiguous income job, etc.

because that's a lot of their uh their actual like consumer base is in these sort of ambiguous creative jobs. I do think that like one of those exercises just going through every one of these like ideas and concepts and words behind it and defining those words for a brand is like so much more important than whatever's in the brand guide, right? The quote unquote. It's like what do we really think about that? How do we really look at that? And you to segue this a bit when people go, "Okay, well, how do I find inspiration? How do I actually hunt that down? How do I begin to have it from from a brand?" All this is really just taking these principles from film, right? Like the movie uh analogy is a good one because it's so accurate. It's also where we draw a lot from. I'd be curious um like to talk about a bit about where those rootings in world building come from when it comes to movies, film and action. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, world building comes from cinema and cinema is this beautiful rich visual auditory kind of social construct that's all around story. And we'll talk about story, but I think one of the best worldbuilders in cinema, not the first, but I think one of the most beloved and one of the most current is Wes Anderson. Of course, he's really famous for his world building. And so as an example here, my favorite Wes Anderson film is Grand Budapest Hotel. Uh Grand Budapest Hotel is a a masterwork in so many different ways.

And so the question for us today is well, what separates simply good art direction, right? Like you'll see in a film like The Substance from World building. And what what Wes Anderson does is borrow a lot from children's literature and different mechanisms where he goes beyond simply the idea of setting to think about institutions. Okay? &gt;&gt; So he shows institutions in his films. In the case of uh Moonrise Kingdom, it's the khaki scouts, not the Boy Scouts. And that that little kind of concession there of taking something from the normal world, right, the world that we all live in, like the Boy Scouts, and just tweaking it a little bit and making a slightly fictionalized version of it makes it just enough real, but also just enough kind of fantasy to really work in a worldbuing setting. So, if we take Grand Budapest Hotel for example, there's a um a a fictional country called Zabrovka. And Zabrovka is like this amalgamation of an Alpine central European country. It's part of the Austrohungarian Empire. It's a little bit of the Czech Republic. It's a little bit of Austria. It's a little bit of Hungary. Uh and it's an imagined institution, right? This idea of that part of Europe at the time. And then you take the Grand Budapest Hotel itself. There are these imperial hotels that were built in kind of spa towns in that empire. And you know as soon as you see it that this institution existed for the film, it's going to exist after the film.

And then institutions within that like Mendele's Bakery, right? The story bakery that takes place in it or uh instead of the SS, it's the zigzag, the zz, right? We're sort of just mirroring that little icon that goes on the soldiers um gle. So these are things that build story for for Wes Anderson these films. The other thing that he does is the ability to go really really tight on props. So every object is a representation of this world when you zoom in on it really quickly. Whether it's a matchbook, whether it's a menu item, it has all the details of that world that allow you to place yourself in it. And I think that's an important kind of item for brand building because when you are a brand building or when you're a world building brand, you create essentially props in this movie that you're creating and you've got to pay attention to those little &gt;&gt; and they don't often like don't take them seriously enough, right? There's just, you know, oh, it's the average, it's your koozie, it's your holder, and people talk about merch, but there's a real conversation around that. I mean, uh, Palunteer, for better or for worse, has, uh, gotten a significant amount of conversation around releasing a French chore coat, a street wear drop, but they're building artifacts, right? And I I can I like the idea of artifacts from a film as the same as artifacts of a brand, but they're almost more important because you have so few actual touch. If you're going to spend the $2 or put have the website like vacation does, it's important. &gt;&gt; Yeah.

The artifacts and the totems, right? The like the design to the extent that every single object, every detail of it, right? Like this kind of baroque ornate 80s down to the gold foil reflectivity which is is is go, right? and over the top, but that's the point because it fits into that world. &gt;&gt; And you even see that even you go into the Sephora merchandising and you'll see the same thing or, you know, Ulta, wherever they are, you'll see like every one of those displays as an extension. I love that a lot about what Vacation's done. &gt;&gt; Extrapolating this to any company, right? Like product companies, consumers companies work great, but really any type of company is you've got to remember that human beings make meaning and organize everything through stories. We are the only species do this is understand and have the logic that defines our life is through stories. Not facts, not evidence or data but stories because stories is how we make sense of things like morality and identity uh and challenge and relationships. And so what brands do is they hijack the neural circuitry that was developed for human beings to relate to each other with stories and translate it into what they're trying to achieve with their brand and their growth. And what a story is in the most fundamental level is a character, a hero who encounters a crisis or a challenge and through that challenge becomes transformed to become a better version of themselves. &gt;&gt; Hero's journey. &gt;&gt; The hero's journey.

And what brands do is they sell a better version of yourself, a better version of the hero. And so the question is how are you transformed through this journey? And what worldbuilding brands do is they put you as most of the time the hero in that journey and they show an incredible level of cinematic detail that is highly evocative and plays on your imagination of what do I look and feel like when I'm transformed by this product. So today, we're going to add a real skill to your toolkit in 120 seconds. Brought to you by Framer. Every time a consumer clicks on an ad or goes to download your ebook or to book a call on your website, they're hitting a funnel, landing page, and pages after that. And most suck. They're not building your brand's world. One of the highest value skills you can do as a creative is to be able to improve this funnel to build it because that drives more sales, more email subs, and when you can quantify the work, you get paid more for it. Framer is a complete website platform and I love it for quickly being able to spin up brand assets like this especially for software services and personal brand sites. And today I want to talk about the new frame agents and the workflow to create new sites and sections of sites. So here this entire site that you see was generated by framework agents. I gave it a reference bento style layout like this. Some of my links and imagery and a picture of myself to create and it made this for me. I did not design anything. I was able to go in and edit those call to actions.

And what I just asked for, you can see here on the right, was for it to give me a placeholder section for testimonials and for FAQ. And it gives it to me in mobile and on desktop. I can preview it right here. I've asked for special effects for the rollovers. You can adjust. I'm doing all of this. Everything you see here was created in chat with framer agents. And all this matches the design style of my website overall. So if you're building this, you want to start with a landing page. The sections you want to call out to have are an aggressive title with a subtitle. anchor that in your customer painoint, your core section, the header you saw there, where you can put the value propositions of what you're trying to get. Ideally, a video about the product offer if you have one, and the ability to sign up or act on the offer right there, the way you saw with my form. And ideally, all that is above the fold. They see that right when they land on the website. And then below it, you can get into testimonials and proof points, dive into the top features, more video or graphic examples, UGC testimonials, big call to action to act now, and then a frequently asked question section to really get to any reason they might have an objection. That's a great landing page structure to use. But then if you're booking a call or even someone buys something from there, the confirmation page they get is ultra important because it can radically increase the chance of conversion on a call or even upsell another product.

I'd be putting a personal video from the CEO or a freelancer there along with a personal message and what they can expect next. Doesn't have to be high-res. It can just be a yap. But literally take that outline for this page, drop it into framer with the agents and ask it to make those sections with placeholder copy you can update or ask it to generate initial copy or bring in copy that you've already done and have it make the complete site. You can polish your drafts, refine your design. I started that whole bento layout just from a screenshot of a similar site. And ask for little world building elements. They go a long way. Photos or design that tie to your social media, video embeds, stickers with your logo elements, websites or extensions of your brand story. And you can just ask for them in chat with Framer. Ship your sites faster with Framer today and use code orin for 30% off of Framer Pro annual plan. Link is in the description. &gt;&gt; This is actually a good time to bring up your background. My worldbuing resume starts with Sir Kenszington's which is the company that I founded and what Sir Kensington's was was reimagining condiments. So we actually started the brand and the world before we even made the first product. And the way it started was the idea that there are so many different types of mustards out there and there's only one type of ketchup. And the type of ketchup that's out there is obviously dominated by Hind. And then every other brand is in the same package with the same product inside and the same texture.

And it's ubiquitous, but it's not really saying anything interesting. But at the same time, ketchup as an absolute strangle hold on the American refrigerator, right? It's in like 98% of American refrigerators. And Hines is a is a is a call brand, right, that everyone knows, almost like a Kleenex. Um, and so we realized that if we were to just simply make a better product, we would fail because it wouldn't capture anyone's attention. So we said, let's do the exact opposite of Hines, right? If Hines is going to be in plastic, we're going to start in glass. If Hines is indiscriminately squeezed, we are going to be scooped like a high-end European &gt;&gt; I love that dichotomy. Look at what's happening in the market. Okay, how do we elevate or do the opposite? It's a great way to look at things. &gt;&gt; Do the opposite. And and if Hines is Americana and synonymous with the roadside diner and fast food and like really central to America, well, what's the opposite of that? &gt;&gt; Let's be English, right? And how do we be English? Well, we needed to create a a lore that basically was drafting off of heritage that we were inventing cuz we didn't have heritage. The product was brand new. We were kids in college at the time. &gt;&gt; You guys weren't in the &gt;&gt; witch and start chefs or anything like that. And so we committed to the bit and we built a a a brand of 11 out of 10 intensity on that method acting. So we created this elaborate story before we even made our first jar of ketchup.

Sir Kensington himself went to Cambridge for undergrad and Oxford for graduate school and he did a treatise for the queen in Constantinople on Ionian chutneys and spice sauces and worked among the spice traders of the Bosphorus. He returns to England knowing that he cannot alone make sauces as a way to make his fortune and so he has the brilliant idea who is insuring the insurance companies. I'm going to start the first reinsurance company to ensure insurance companies in this sort of loop. Uh he does very financially well on that. And of course he doesn't just retire and kick back. He says, "I'm going to gather the greatest creative minds in Europe create a salon series." He hosts salons at his country estate. In one of these salons, Katherine the Great of Russia is in attendance. The emperor of Japan has also made the trip across the ocean and has brought a cut of Kobe. hitherto never tasted in United Kingdom. And of course, Katherine the Great of Russia says, "Well, I would like to try this coobe beef. Do you have any ketchup to pair it with?" Sir Kensington thinking to himself, "I can't serve a Zarus high fructose corn syrup and something that I just bought at the local supermarket. I need to make something better." So, he goes in the kitchen, pulls the tomatoes together, pulls the raw sugar, finds a malt vinegar, and concocts on the spot Sir Kenzing's ketchup for her to try. &gt;&gt; I love that the lore is just off the top of the head. Let's go. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And it changes every time I tell it.

I think that what's really important here is what you're hearing is play. This was not we need to turn the business around. This was not we need to get in a whiteboard and figure out what Q2 is going to look like. We had no idea that this would actually ever be a business. We were in play because storytelling and world building is play. And you've got to be able to get yourself in that mental space. &gt;&gt; And I think um I'm I'm curious how that permeated culture of the company &gt;&gt; to start like with that culture. We did create this this this lore and almost these artifacts if you will. And so, for instance, when we launched, we made we worked with a a a wonderful artist in New York um named Eric Adolfson to sketch and draw all of the various vessels that Sir Kensington's attempted before, you know, uh stabilizing on this ketchup jar and all of the different circumstances that you could use the condiment in, right? This really deep level of detail. And for the for the company culture, um, we really thought about the mission to bring integrity and charm, ordinary and overlooked. And you'll see here, we gave everyone this this steel tablet, right? Again, the sort of lore almost like a set of commandments, &gt;&gt; not not a 4x6 card, you know, a steel tablet, &gt;&gt; something that has real physicality to it. And the language that had this internal voice and consistency. So, integrity and charm, right? These are words that have a kind of a subtle English almost aristocratic feel to them, like they f sound like they came out of eaten.

And one of the other great rules of of branding is humanize. Always humanize. And so, in the character of Sir Kensington, you have the the personification of integrity and charm. And you have integrity and charm as the watchwords in our mission. And then beyond that, culturally, we as the team members were the acolytes and the students of Sir Kensington. And so when we would go to a trade show or when we would go on a sales call, I had a mustache for seven years of my life just as Sir Kensington did. And we would wear suits, dark suits with ties because take something and take it seriously, right? And I think if I have one regret, it's I didn't take it too seriously. We didn't take it seriously for long enough. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think that's what's interesting is like how do you grow with that? you know, someone like vacation is just embodied for so long. As you begin to get a company and you have outside sales reps and oh, we now we're in Australia and they're like, how do you kind of keep that going? I think is uh is yeah interesting challenge. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think that's the challenge of the artist, right? That's the challenge of the artist. I like to use this model that, you know, an artist is known for expressing themselves and telling their story with no definition of success beyond that. It's not about how how much you sell, right? It's not about how you change the world. It's really about self-expression.

And then on the very very end of that you have a hack, right? Someone who is only doing something as a jo o someone who's doing something simply to solve a problem. And in the middle you have craft. A craft person is expressing themselves and they're putting in the care of an artist but they're delivering the function of a job to be done. And so that's the question is how do you find the right balance of craft? because you've seen and we've all seen so many brands that are these beautiful artistic expressions that are dedicated to these things, but the commercial element, the job they're doing for the customer isn't satisfied. Exactly. &gt;&gt; And the story isn't legible, right? And then we also see lots of products that are there to make a buck, right, and check all the boxes and those don't last either. And so the question is, how do you figure out what do you listen to? Because it is important, right, to talk about your organic bonafides. It is important to make sure that you put the right features and benefits on your Amazon page for all the different kind of practical matters of someone buying ketchup online, right? And so I think if anything we were pushed a little bit more towards the blander side of things. If I were to go back in time, we would have committed to the bit a little bit harder. &gt;&gt; And I love that it was rooted in the shelf, right? Uh I think that's a great thing for anyone working on something like this to look at is like what actually happens on the shelf in your category.

So, even with sunscreen, like you look at people that are thriving in sunscreen, look at someone like Kosas who took uh okay, it's it's skincare and it's sunscreen at the same time. It's Sunbum, they're living inside a surf. It's Super Goop, they've gone all in on the ingredients. It's vacation, they've gone on the lifestyle. All those brands are disruptors in their space because they looked at a boring shelf and said, "We have an angle." Same thing with what you talked about in food. And a shelf can mean a physical shelf if you're actually in retail, but also if it's look, if it's AP software, it's just you how do you have a perspective inside what those other ones are are looking at is more tech enabled? What world can you build? And I think that rooting whatever world you build inside a position saying, hey, we're going to be the opposite of the diner ketchup is an important way to actually tie it to that the jo end, the value end, the the list on the Amazon. &gt;&gt; Yes. And I think one one way to do that and and what we did was recognize that because Newan knew who we were, we needed something that was so weird and different on shelf that someone would have to do a double take. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It was impactful. I remember that was my like initial experience with this. You're like, "Wait, you got what?" And it cost how much? And that thing and it's that's a great there's very little conversations you have around ketchup, right? And to be seen is to be sold.

And so that similarly whether it is um you know vacation sunscreen or sir Kensington's going back to the Wes Anderson aesthetic of the matchbook right and the dedication to detail. It's when you are creating a product that is going to sit on shelf. How do you make it abundantly clear that this is a prop that belongs in a different world and the world that you've built? And then when you use the prop, what I love most about this is like I've pulled this out of a beach bag and people comment on it. Whether they know the brand, someone knows the brand like, "Oh, is that vacation?" If they don't know the brand, they're like, "Oh, is that like some aloha like back in the day like Hawaii?" And then it's immediately you are the owner of the artifact. You're in that brand film like we talked about before. And it comes and it's just as simple as a package. &gt;&gt; You are you are initiated and you are now a junior executive in the Asian Corporation. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; so the prop the prop attitude is really important. And I think what's interesting is when you see this go even further, right? And so I want to talk about Ralph Lauren because they're they've built now many Wolves, right? You see a brand that has gone from they they stand for so many things for the American West, they stand for the Ivy League, they're the Olympic representative of America, there's purple label subbrands. And so the brands actually build this out so much into uh and you see it in everything from cafes to clothing. That's where it takes on almost a new life of its own.

I have a great appreciation for those brands. Uh, and I guess I'm I'm curious what are like how do you feel about that brand? How do you feel about actually extending that world beyond? You know, you built a brand in a category. If you had to build greater than that, what's the ideas and playbook there? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, clothing and apparel and fashion is such rich territory for this because clothing is is our costume, right? It's the number one way where we can immediately express our identity to friends and strangers and how people see us and it gives us the confidence or the attitude for what we want to project, right? And so costume is like quite literally part of the cinematic experience. And I think especially call it like in an urban setting, right? in a city. When you walk out of your apartment, no matter what your apartment looks like, if you're in New York City, you know, how small it is, how grungy it is, when you go outside, you become part of the city, right? And you become characters in that city with this costume. And this, I think, goes back to, you know, the late 19th century France and kind of the um the the the development of this cosmopolitan culture and urban culture, right, through the 20s and beyond. And so Ralph Lauren is of course a, you know, it's a it's a it's a storied and beautiful example that isn't just one world, but it's a world of worlds because Ralph Lauren has the New England prep and it also has the the rugged wild west.

And where and why I think this works going back to the idea of the transformed individual, right? And what you become through the the transformation of participating and enrolling in a brand is about fantasy. and Ralph Lauren in their world of the prep aesthetic, it sells a fantasy of unearned privilege and elegance and being able to be included in any room, right? And when you think about going back to storytelling, fundamental human psychology and neurosircuitry, the most important thing that we can do every day is make sure that we are not severed from society and that we are not mocked, that we are included, that we are participating, that we will find a mate, that we will procreate, that we will be respected in the community. And when you draft off of waspy American culture that was at the top of society right at that time and all the tropes of that aesthetic, you can live into the fantasy of being high status in included and of having this unearned privilege that people fantasize about. Similarly, in the American West, right, is the other side of the country. It's a different fantasy, but it's a fantasy about freedom. It's a fantasy about being able to self-express in nature to some extent, but still connected and respected in society in kind of a maverick rugged way, an individualist way, where the prep aesthetic is all about a uh cohesive community and kind of a societal acceptance way. So, there's these different psychologies going on, but they all kind of fundamentally go back to the fantasy of identity and of social inclusion.

And what's interesting is you would put those if we were in a vacuum and you were talking about the American West, we're talking about the Ivy League prep, it wouldn't make sense that they would live in one category, one world of worlds under a brand, but that throughine of Americana of that like ideal like uh is so kind of excellently executed throughout that brand. What what I find interesting, I want to dive into some of these worlds in particular is is like their appeal. So for instance, like the Western world, uh the idea of the Wild West, the idea of freedom, that's as big in Japan. And Japan has co-opted so much of they make better kind of Americana western wear than America does at this point. It's equally as fascinating from Australia to Europe. The concept of Texas. There's these ideas that are just so much bigger than the brand itself you can jump into. I feel oddly the same way we saw with whether it was Sporty and Rich immediately took that into a you know like a a modern female at the point in time when they were at their peak. There's all these little ways to kind of co-opt it. What what other worlds are there out there? What are those other things that you know people can tap into? You did that a bit with aristocracy. Uh, we've seen it with kind of 80s and nostalgia. I think it'd be cool to basically put some ideas out there for people that they could tap in. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I would say like it's kind of whatever you fantasize about and whatever has the depth of a world.

I mean, let's take a let's take sort of a left turn here and talk about the brand Andre. Yeah. Call a brand. It's a company, right? And is a um a defense tech company, right? It's a new defense tech company started by the founder of Oculus. And most defense tech companies, right, they don't actually want to be seen by the outside world. Like United Technologies, what do they make? Bombs, [laughter] right? Like, and but and what Andrew does is Andrew has realized that wait a minute, there is a fantasy of American technological superiority that wasn't really being told. And when you have the rank and file members of the Pentagon and the government that now grew up on first person shooter video games and the world of video games and the the internet, then how do you build an aesthetic world for them, right? And so the choices that Andrew has made about how they design their products with like the matte black, the sans Sarah fonts, the art direction that they that they put in. They are selling a fantasy of American technological superiority that goes beyond the messy elements of the battlefield and the the the difficult procurement process of of of government contracting into this very pure world that people can fantasize about and and that relates to American pride. &gt;&gt; And even the artifacts you can buy the the metallic alloys, same thing they use to make whatever space inside a Game Boy. together.

The mod retro in I think it's Titanium, the Andre edition mod retro is exactly that is we are going to pair this idea of a of a video game with ballistic missiles, right? And with this intelligent technology. And that's perfect for an era where we are now in point-and-click warfare, right? with the the drones and the technology that we have right now in the Gulf. Um it is point-and-click warfare that is directly related to that lore of video games. &gt;&gt; Well, it's also it's continuing a lore. Um people always look at oh well you have your United Industries or someone who can't talk about anything, but there's also a lot of lore inside infrastructure, science, government propaganda. You look at NASA and like the the the craziest brand guide ever and the most licensing possibly done that's done to get a it's HR. It's we're recruiting by getting people excited about science by putting these things out there that you can then treat as you know again artifacts. Uh and I think even with defense we look at skunk works and these things that kind of happened in the past they were more tongue-in-cheek and they just adapted that to to the modern age. But I do encourage you know whether you are a uh fan of the industrial world complex or not. The idea of looking at any single niche you look at, there is that way to attract people's excitement about it by finding a world that you know your your target industry loves those people are had you had some moments with.

Like a game boy is a connection point to a uh like a a defense company is really about the kind of people that are who have had that childhood chose to pursue that into engineering want to connect all those dots together. It's built a world for them. &gt;&gt; I got another one for you. Let's go. I've been thinking about. So, a lot of a lot of ink has been spilled about the Japanese imagination of America and workware and denim and rockabilly, right? And what we're seeing now, especially recently, is the American imagination of Japan. &gt;&gt; Interesting. &gt;&gt; And so, if you think about obviously it's an Australian brand, but an Asop store, the interior of an Asop store is minimalist, but with organic materials and textures. &gt;&gt; It's a western interpretation of Japan. All that. Yeah. and or District Vision who just opened a shop a few blocks from here with that is very much inspired by Japanese minimalist design and with materials and plant life and lighting. Uh and then again this is a Japanese brand but it has taken hold in the west is Snow Peak. Yeah. Right. Snow Peak is a brand that represents not performance in nature or domination over nature, but a Japanese concept of coexistence with nature. And Snow Peak has the materials. They have a what they call, I think, a a campsite or a a a campland up in, you know, Washington State that that you can go to and visit as a physical place. They have stores and all of these these little artifacts that they make are beautifully mil and machined in that level of Japanese craft detail for the outdoors.

And they play into the western fantasy of a simpler minimalistic life that has more that has less stuff but better stuff which is in the you know world of wash and teu and Amazon and Walmart. We have like too much stuff and we need to go back to those middle roots. I think uh I I think there's a lot of conversation around running brands like Satisfy etc. and not nearly enough around District Vision because I think District Vision is a fascinating brand and I'm a was a big kind of early consumer of it because they really have that mission and methodology kind of locked. It's for mindful athletes. It's based in like meditation practice at the beginning. Uh and you look at a lot of brands try to find how can I attach this to something bigger has more meaning in life. How do I make a mission statement mean something people actually care about? And they're a great example of a brand that really rooted it in that because not only is it just saying this is for mindful athletes, hey, here's the meditation thing you can purchase from us. Here's the program you can buy into. When you go on our brand trip, you're going to a center for, you know, establishing whatever it is about your your inner journey. There are very few examples of people really have that mission that's actually rooted in anything serious. I think they're they're a good one for &gt;&gt; Yeah.

And where that I mean where that comes from and you know people talk about authenticity, a word that gets bandied about, right? Well, what does that mean? And art art and craft is a self-expression, right? And some of my favorite brands are self-expressions of founders and artists. And so, yeah, when you when we talk about how to practically apply these, it's not really going to work if it's not kind of deeply inside of you, right? So, I am an anglophile. I love to perform. So for me the sir Kensington character and the world was like living out a personal fantasy and a personal belief. Similarly like the two founders of district vision this is not something that they are like putting on a spreadsheet and saying what do we do next? It's this is an intuitive feel for them right and it is in some ways like the gift that they have to give. Um, similarly with vacation, right? It's about it is about community and is about taking kind of a world that the fun has been drained out of and figuring out like how do we inject fun back into this world and take it really seriously. &gt;&gt; If you want to get practical with this, uh, you had this idea called the hotel test. What is the hotel test? &gt;&gt; Well, the hotel test is if you could imagine your brand, whatever brand you're working on as a hotel. First of all, is it easy to imagine or is it hard to imagine? Right? Like if I want to imagine Hyundai as a hotel, I don't get a lot of detail. &gt;&gt; Zoho. Yeah.

&gt;&gt; But if I want to imagine Ferrari as a hotel, I know exactly what that hotel looks and feels like, right? Great worldbuilding brands pass the hotel test. As a great exercise, I'd say, what is the hotel for your brand? When you walk into the lobby, what does it smell like? What does it look and feel like? When you're meet greeted at the front desk, how is the the attendant dressed? How do they greet you? What's the language that they use? When you go up to your room, what's the music that's playing in the elevator? What's waiting for you on your pillow? When you go into the bathroom, what type of soap is there? Right? And when you leave, what type of little trinket do they give you on the way out? You know, what does the key card look like? If you can build the details in the hotel test, then that's a great entree. into world building and even if it's not for like rebranding your entire company and rebranding your brand, treat it as a we're going to do a campaign around this. We're we're going to take we're going to take this hotel test and we're going to funnel into a campaign which is just exactly the same way that what artists do with album releases, right? Think about each Kanye album, right, has a different structure and look and feel. And sometimes it's transparent and sometimes it uses photography and sometimes it uses bright colors and sometimes it uses handwritten scroll. &gt;&gt; It signals an error. &gt;&gt; It signals an error, right? And so campaigns can be the exact same way. &gt;&gt; I like with the hotel test is okay.

First you need to define it yourself. You need to understand what the brand stands for. And then it's how do you get your customer to be able to say that same answer back to you or them to be able to picture in the mind the way you and I were both able to picture a very similar Ferrari. Yeah. Uh, and I like to think of too in the influence world, uh, the idea of like the brand trip test I think is an interesting extension of that too because you want to define, okay, if you have all these experiences, but now who are the people if they were if they were on this trip, who would they be, what activities would they be doing? Like what would they be posting? Who would be viewing it? And would people care? And begin to build that out. And I could see um people use ramp as an example a lot because obviously they're a one of the few companies in a boring industry that's done some real world building but there's the ordinary there's a few that have kind of built outside of their niche and you can do this in anything whether you are doing that as a hedge fun whether you are doing that as venture capital whether you're doing as a microphone company I think there is the ability to conduct like both of those tests and think about what they say is a is a powerful vehicle um any parting thoughts that you want to leave anyone with &gt;&gt; take something and take it seriously commit to the bit and have fun with it. Absolutely. I appreciate you coming and talking through it and uh we will we'll link more information about Scott in the description. We'll cover all the world building below.

I appreciate you guys sitting with us and walking through it. Thank you.
