We are entering a completely new era in personal brand building. Today, if you personal brand
building. Today, if you want to build a lucrative personal brand want to build a lucrative personal
brand that makes millions of dollars, you that makes millions of dollars, you don't need to go mega
viral. You don't don't need to go mega viral. You don't need millions and millions of followers.
need millions and millions of followers. You don't need to have made content for You don't need to
have made content for 10 years. All you need is to become 10 years. All you need is to become micro
famous in your niche. This is how micro famous in your niche. This is how all of these people have
built all of these people have built seven-figure businesses in just a couple seven-figure
businesses in just a couple years online without ever touching years online without ever touching
mainstream fame. Now, the truth is mainstream fame. Now, the truth is building micro fame this
quickly wasn't building micro fame this quickly wasn't possible just five years ago. Most possible
just five years ago. Most people on this list hadn't even started people on this list hadn't even
started posting five years ago. But, the reason posting five years ago. But, the reason it's
possible now and why so many people it's possible now and why so many people are unlocking this
micro fame is because are unlocking this micro fame is because the algorithms have changed. And that
the algorithms have changed. And that change makes right now the only time in change makes right now
the only time in history where you can get famous fast history where you can get famous fast inside
of a category. Now, in this inside of a category. Now, in this video, I'm going to break down the
video, I'm going to break down the playbook for how anyone watching this playbook for how anyone
watching this can become micro famous in their niche.  can become micro famous in their niche. I'll
explain why it's possible now, what I'll explain why it's possible now, what makes it so attractive,
and the exact makes it so attractive, and the exact steps that you can follow to make it steps that
you can follow to make it happen for yourself. By the way, if you happen for yourself. By the way,
if you don't know me, my name is Chalene. I don't know me, my name is Chalene. I have a million
followers. I've done have a million followers. I've done billions of views, and content is all I
billions of views, and content is all I do all day long. All right, before we do all day long. All
right, before we get into the tactics, let's just define get into the tactics, let's just define
what being micro famous actually means.  what being micro famous actually means. Cuz this will
really help you understand Cuz this will really help you understand the ultimate goal of your
content the ultimate goal of your content strategy. Being micro famous means that strategy. Being
micro famous means that you are the authority figure in your you are the authority figure in your
category. Micro fame isn't about the category. Micro fame isn't about the number of followers you
have. It's about number of followers you have. It's about your authority density per follower. And
your authority density per follower. And if there was one single metric that if there was one single
metric that could compare audience value across could compare audience value across channels, it
would be this. Imagine channels, it would be this. Imagine there were two accounts. The first one
there were two accounts. The first one has 2 million followers in the sports has 2 million followers
in the sports niche, but it's largely based on news niche, but it's largely based on news reporting,
trends, memes, and a couple reporting, trends, memes, and a couple of viral bangers based around
cultural of viral bangers based around cultural moments. The second one only has 50,000 moments. The
second one only has 50,000 followers in the collectible space. But, followers in the collectible
space. But, every single one of those 50,000 people every single one of those 50,000 people
considers them the collectibles expert.  considers them the collectibles expert. They trust them.
They follow their They trust them. They follow their picks. And when they have a question on picks.
And when they have a question on collectibles, their name and face is the collectibles, their name
and face is the first thing that pops in their head.  first thing that pops in their head. Now, be
honest, which of these two Now, be honest, which of these two accounts would you say is more
valuable?  accounts would you say is more valuable? Most people honestly would say the first Most
people honestly would say the first one. Because even though it's more one. Because even though it's
more general, it has 40 times more followers general, it has 40 times more followers and likely gets
way higher average and likely gets way higher average views. But, the truth is, in almost views.
But, the truth is, in almost every scenario, the collectibles every scenario, the collectibles
account, number two, will out-earn the account, number two, will out-earn the first one. And this is
the power of first one. And this is the power of authority density. In personal branding, authority
density. In personal branding, dollars come from authority, which comes dollars come from authority,
which comes from trust accrued over time. So, your from trust accrued over time. So, your goal, if
you're trying to build a super goal, if you're trying to build a super lucrative personal brand, is
to increase lucrative personal brand, is to increase the density of authority across your the
density of authority across your audience. And it actually doesn't take audience. And it actually
doesn't take that big of an audience to be able to that big of an audience to be able to build a
seven-figure business. This is build a seven-figure business. This is exactly why buying followers
or running exactly why buying followers or running follower ads to grow your following is a follower
ads to grow your following is a mistake. This is a metaphor I like to mistake. This is a metaphor I
like to use. Imagine you had a glass full of red use. Imagine you had a glass full of red food
coloring, and it was super food coloring, and it was super concentrated, very, very deep red. Every
concentrated, very, very deep red. Every follower you add that doesn't trust you follower you add
that doesn't trust you would be like adding clear water to that would be like adding clear water to
that glass. Over time, the glass fills up, glass. Over time, the glass fills up, but the liquid
dilutes, first turning but the liquid dilutes, first turning light red, and then pink, and then
light red, and then pink, and then eventually almost clear. This metaphor eventually almost clear.
This metaphor is a proxy for trust dilution over time, is a proxy for trust dilution over time,
which is very common, but it is the which is very common, but it is the number one killer for why
personal number one killer for why personal brands stop being able to monetize. So, brands stop
being able to monetize. So, if there's one metric that tells you how if there's one metric that
tells you how valuable an audience actually is, it's valuable an audience actually is, it's not
followers, it's authority density.  not followers, it's authority density. And becoming micro famous
is just the And becoming micro famous is just the exercise of maximizing this authority exercise of
maximizing this authority density. So, here's a really quick test density. So, here's a really quick
test you can run to just subtly gauge what you can run to just subtly gauge what your authority
density looks like. Ask your authority density looks like. Ask yourself this, if you polled all of
your yourself this, if you polled all of your followers and you asked them followers and you asked
them independently, "Who is the number one independently, "Who is the number one person in this
niche that you trust the person in this niche that you trust the most?" Would they say you? Cuz if
the most?" Would they say you? Cuz if the answer is mostly no, you don't have a answer is mostly no,
you don't have a follower problem, you have a density follower problem, you have a density problem.
And everything else I'm going problem. And everything else I'm going to go through in this video
will help to go through in this video will help you fix that. And that will enable you you fix that.
And that will enable you to become micro famous. All right, the to become micro famous. All right,
the last thing I want to cover before I get last thing I want to cover before I get into the
tactics, and this is so, so into the tactics, and this is so, so important, is to understand why
becoming important, is to understand why becoming micro famous is now so much easier today micro
famous is now so much easier today than it was five years ago. Something than it was five years ago.
Something structurally has changed in the way structurally has changed in the way social media
works, and understanding social media works, and understanding this is very important in helping you
to this is very important in helping you to take advantage. There are three core take advantage.
There are three core shifts to the algorithms and social shifts to the algorithms and social media
design that make this fast fame media design that make this fast fame possible in this era. The
first one is possible in this era. The first one is what I call zero ramp virality. Just 5 what I
call zero ramp virality. Just 5 years ago, there was really no ability years ago, there was really
no ability for you to go viral on day one of for you to go viral on day one of posting. [music] You
had to first build posting. [music] You had to first build up a following and get them to engage up
a following and get them to engage with your stuff over time even have a with your stuff over time
even have a chance of something breaking out. Well, chance of something breaking out. Well, today
that is completely flipped. If you today that is completely flipped. If you make a new account on
Monday and you make a new account on Monday and you post a banger on Tuesday, you could have post a
banger on Tuesday, you could have a million views and 10,000 followers by a million views and 10,000
followers by Wednesday. I call this zero ramp Wednesday. I call this zero ramp virality. There's
zero ramp required to virality. There's zero ramp required to be able to go viral. And this is an be
able to go viral. And this is an insane thing to unlock if you know what insane thing to unlock if
you know what you're doing. It just wasn't possible you're doing. It just wasn't possible before.
Now, the second condition that before. Now, the second condition that changed that makes this micro
fame changed that makes this micro fame process easier is called automatic process easier is called
automatic targeting. 5 years ago, social targeting. 5 years ago, social algorithms targeting ability
was nowhere algorithms targeting ability was nowhere near as sophisticated as it is today.  near as
sophisticated as it is today. And this just means it took a lot longer And this just means it took a
lot longer for algorithms to understand who your for algorithms to understand who your ideal viewer
was supposed to be. Because ideal viewer was supposed to be. Because of that, you just had to post
of that, you just had to post organically for a long time to try to organically for a long time to
try to hone in this audience match. Well, today hone in this audience match. Well, today that is
also completely flipped. Social that is also completely flipped. Social targeting precision is
insanely good.  targeting precision is insanely good. Almost right out of the box as soon as Almost
right out of the box as soon as you start posting on a new account.  you start posting on a new
account. Because of this, in just a couple Because of this, in just a couple videos, the algorithms
can very videos, the algorithms can very accurately target the exact person you accurately target
the exact person you want to reach with almost zero spillover want to reach with almost zero
spillover into a bad fit avatar. So, you're into a bad fit avatar. So, you're getting both insane
reach potential to getting both insane reach potential to the exact right people almost instantly.
the exact right people almost instantly. Now, the third condition that changed Now, the third
condition that changed this, and this really is the biggest this, and this really is the biggest
one, is the unlimited scale. Organic one, is the unlimited scale. Organic content can now scale
infinitely.  content can now scale infinitely. Before, you could post high volume like Before, you
could post high volume like 5, 10 times a day, but you really risked 5, 10 times a day, but you
really risked follower fatigue because the only people follower fatigue because the only people that
saw your stuff were followers. So, that saw your stuff were followers. So, if you just hammered
post, the same if you just hammered post, the same people would be seeing your stuff over people
would be seeing your stuff over and over. Today, that is also changed.  and over. Today, that is
also changed. For You feeds basically allow you to For You feeds basically allow you to post 10
times per day without fatiguing post 10 times per day without fatiguing your followers because
they'll just show your followers because they'll just show it to a bunch of other non-followers it
to a bunch of other non-followers that are similar to the people following that are similar to the
people following you. If you add these three variables you. If you add these three variables up, it
means that if you make the right up, it means that if you make the right content, you can reach
millions of the content, you can reach millions of the right people on day one and then right people
on day one and then continue reaching millions more like continue reaching millions more like them
whenever you want. These are what I them whenever you want. These are what I call Goldilocks
conditions when it comes call Goldilocks conditions when it comes to marketing and it's why I've
been to marketing and it's why I've been basically screaming to every business basically screaming
to every business owner I know and making these videos owner I know and making these videos with my
hands like this over the last 2 with my hands like this over the last 2 years because as soon as I
recognized years because as soon as I recognized these conditions had changed, it becomes these
conditions had changed, it becomes the greatest marketing bet you could the greatest marketing bet
you could possibly make to make organic video possibly make to make organic video content. So, these
three conditions content. So, these three conditions multiplied together are why it's so much
multiplied together are why it's so much easier to become micro famous now than easier to become
micro famous now than it was 5 years ago. And if you don't it was 5 years ago. And if you don't
believe me, take me as an example. Just believe me, take me as an example. Just 3 years ago, I had
never posted a 3 years ago, I had never posted a short-form video. No YouTube, no short-form video.
No YouTube, no short-form, nothing. Fast forward just 3 short-form, nothing. Fast forward just 3
years, I have 2 million followers, I've years, I have 2 million followers, I've done billions of
views, I have my own done billions of views, I have my own micro fame in literally two different
micro fame in literally two different categories. I'm famous in AI and I'm categories. I'm famous in
AI and I'm famous in marketing as well. In each of famous in marketing as well. In each of those
categories, I've built those categories, I've built seven-figure businesses, both of them.
seven-figure businesses, both of them. All of that in 3 years from zero. That All of that in 3 years
from zero. That is only possible because the conditions is only possible because the conditions have
changed so that I can jump to the have changed so that I can jump to the top of a niche without
having to wait my top of a niche without having to wait my turn in line. And I'm telling you, you
turn in line. And I'm telling you, you can do the same thing, too, by becoming can do the same
thing, too, by becoming micro famous in your niche, which I'm micro famous in your niche, which I'm
going to break down right now with this going to break down right now with this tactical playbook.
By the way, guys, if tactical playbook. By the way, guys, if you like how I'm explaining this, I've
you like how I'm explaining this, I've also open-sourced my content system for also open-sourced my
content system for free. What I'm about to go through is free. What I'm about to go through is the
strategy around winning and becoming the strategy around winning and becoming micro famous, but
you're also going to micro famous, but you're also going to need the system for how to make the need
the system for how to make the videos. So, everything I do from ideas videos. So, everything I do
from ideas to hooks to script writing to to hooks to script writing to monetization, it's all
included in here monetization, it's all included in here for free. You can get it at for free. You
can get it at shortformsystem.co shortformsystem.co or check out the link in the or check out the
link in the description. All right, now let's get description. All right, now let's get into the
tactical playbook. This will into the tactical playbook. This will cover the strategic positioning
and the cover the strategic positioning and the content strategy for how you become content strategy
for how you become micro famous in literally any niche. A micro famous in literally any niche. A lot
of people don't know this about me, lot of people don't know this about me, but I actually spend a
lot of my time but I actually spend a lot of my time helping business owners figure this out,
helping business owners figure this out, how to become micro famous in their how to become micro
famous in their category. I've obviously done it for category. I've obviously done it for myself
twice in two different niches, myself twice in two different niches, but I don't think you can
really but I don't think you can really pressure test a system until you apply pressure test a
system until you apply it to other people that aren't you. So, it to other people that aren't you.
So, this is what I've been running for this is what I've been running for dozens and dozens of
business owners dozens and dozens of business owners behind the scenes. A lot of people you behind
the scenes. A lot of people you see dominating categories have some see dominating categories have
some version of this running or I've worked version of this running or I've worked with them
directly. A good example of with them directly. A good example of this is Pat. I've been working
with Pat this is Pat. I've been working with Pat for about a year. He went from zero, for about a
year. He went from zero, never making content ever, to having never making content ever, to having
over 100,000 followers total across over 100,000 followers total across Instagram and TikTok, and
basically Instagram and TikTok, and basically owning the backpacking review niche.  owning the
backpacking review niche. He's had many videos get over a million He's had many videos get over a
million views. He's done brand deals with many views. He's done brand deals with many of the top
brands in the backpacking of the top brands in the backpacking space. He's launched his own
backpacking space. He's launched his own backpacking brand, which did its first launch with a brand,
which did its first launch with a five-figure launch, and that was all in five-figure launch, and
that was all in 1 year. Nobody really knows him outside 1 year. Nobody really knows him outside the
backpacking niche, but inside he is the backpacking niche, but inside he is a top authority figure.
He's micro a top authority figure. He's micro famous. So, this is a perfect example of famous. So,
this is a perfect example of what it looks like to become micro what it looks like to become micro
famous in a niche. And like I said, 12 famous in a niche. And like I said, 12 months, zero to that.
So, here's the months, zero to that. So, here's the tactical playbook that I personally run tactical
playbook that I personally run on all of my channels, what Pat ran on all of my channels, what Pat
ran himself, and what I put the dozens of himself, and what I put the dozens of business owners that
I work with business owners that I work with directly through. The first part, and directly through.
The first part, and this is super important, is to figure this is super important, is to figure out
a unique strategic position. And out a unique strategic position. And this is literally the exercise
that I this is literally the exercise that I ran through when I started posting on my ran through
when I started posting on my Callaway Marketing Instagram account Callaway Marketing Instagram
account just 90 days ago. So, I'm going to take just 90 days ago. So, I'm going to take you through
the framework, and then I'm you through the framework, and then I'm going to show you how I applied
it to going to show you how I applied it to myself to grow way faster. For context, myself to grow
way faster. For context, I've gone from zero to about 60,000 I've gone from zero to about 60,000
followers in just 90 days. I'm growing followers in just 90 days. I'm growing about 1,000 followers
a day following about 1,000 followers a day following this playbook exactly. So, here's how this
playbook exactly. So, here's how you do it. First, you take the niche and you do it. First, you take
the niche and the platform that you're playing on. So, the platform that you're playing on. So, for
me in this case, it was social media for me in this case, it was social media growth on Instagram.
Then you want to growth on Instagram. Then you want to come up with a unique lane within that come
up with a unique lane within that niche that isn't currently niche that isn't currently
oversaturated. I call this a unique oversaturated. I call this a unique positioning angle, a UPA.
And this is positioning angle, a UPA. And this is ideally where you identify white space ideally
where you identify white space that suits your expertise, personality, that suits your expertise,
personality, background, and unique abilities, or background, and unique abilities, or unique
experience. Now, if you're unique experience. Now, if you're literally creating the niche, or you're
literally creating the niche, or you're one of the first ones in this niche, one of the first ones
in this niche, well, then this exercise is not that well, then this exercise is not that difficult.
All you have to do is start difficult. All you have to do is start making content across any of
these making content across any of these attributes, and you'll be good. This attributes, and you'll
be good. This would be like the settlers in the 1850s would be like the settlers in the 1850s in the
US. They didn't have to be real in the US. They didn't have to be real estate savants, they just
went out estate savants, they just went out there, everything was available, they there, everything
was available, they picked their plot and they were good.  picked their plot and they were good.
Now, on the flip side, if you're trying Now, on the flip side, if you're trying to compete in a very
crowded niche, this to compete in a very crowded niche, this exercise is a little bit harder and you
exercise is a little bit harder and you should spend time trying to figure out should spend time
trying to figure out what your unique lane is going to be.  what your unique lane is going to be.
This would be like trying to buy This would be like trying to buy beachfront property in Hawaii
today.  beachfront property in Hawaii today. There are still deals to be had, but you There are
still deals to be had, but you have to really know what you're doing have to really know what you're
doing and spend time carving out your thesis.  and spend time carving out your thesis. Now, when I
say carve your lane, let's Now, when I say carve your lane, let's get very granular. There are seven
get very granular. There are seven different positioning attributes where different positioning
attributes where you can find white space to carve your you can find white space to carve your own
positioning. The goal is to stack up own positioning. The goal is to stack up as many of these
attributes together cuz as many of these attributes together cuz they multiply to create this unique
they multiply to create this unique lane. Again, if you're in your own lane. Again, if you're in
your own category, you're one of the first to category, you're one of the first to make content, you
might only need one of make content, you might only need one of these. If you're in a crowded niche,
you these. If you're in a crowded niche, you probably need a few stacked up together.  probably need
a few stacked up together. So, these are the seven unique So, these are the seven unique attributes
when it comes to unique attributes when it comes to unique positioning. The first one is topic
positioning. The first one is topic selection. So, this would be you talking selection. So, this
would be you talking about topics in your niche that aren't about topics in your niche that aren't
widely covered already today. So, for widely covered already today. So, for example, in social media
growth, this example, in social media growth, this would be like if I identified hooks were would be
like if I identified hooks were really important as a topic, but nobody really important as a topic,
but nobody was covering them, I could just start was covering them, I could just start talking about
hooks and that would talking about hooks and that would create white space that I would fill.
create white space that I would fill. The second attribute is substance depth.  The second attribute
is substance depth. So, this would be where you're talking So, this would be where you're talking
about common topics that are already about common topics that are already covered, but the value or
the tactics or covered, but the value or the tactics or the insights that you give on those the
insights that you give on those topics is just way different than topics is just way different than
everyone else. So again, in the social everyone else. So again, in the social media space, it could
be I've identified media space, it could be I've identified hooks are important, a lot of people
hooks are important, a lot of people already talk about it, so I don't get already talk about it, so
I don't get any topic differentiation, but the way I any topic differentiation, but the way I talk
about it, what I say, the insights talk about it, what I say, the insights I share are just
different at a higher I share are just different at a higher value level and so that's how I value
level and so that's how I separate. The third attribute would be separate. The third attribute would
be unique stories or scenarios. This would unique stories or scenarios. This would be if you have
unique experience or be if you have unique experience or expertise in actually doing the thing so
expertise in actually doing the thing so that you can share that that a lot of that you can share
that that a lot of people don't have and couldn't copy you people don't have and couldn't copy you
on without lying. So, for example, in on without lying. So, for example, in the social media space,
if I grew five the social media space, if I grew five accounts to a million followers and not
accounts to a million followers and not that many people had done that, well that many people had
done that, well then I could share lessons learned and then I could share lessons learned and
stories that are atypical from what stories that are atypical from what people typically see and
that would people typically see and that would create white space that I would fill.  create white
space that I would fill. The fourth attribute or way to separate The fourth attribute or way to
separate in positioning would be avatar in positioning would be avatar specificity. So, this would
be like specificity. So, this would be like you're talking to a specific unique you're talking to a
specific unique avatar slice that is underserved in the avatar slice that is underserved in the
niche. So, for example, in the social niche. So, for example, in the social media growth space, if
there are a lot media growth space, if there are a lot of people there, but no one's talking to of
people there, but no one's talking to mortgage brokers about social media, mortgage brokers about
social media, that would be a unique lane or unique that would be a unique lane or unique avatar
specificity that you would fill.  avatar specificity that you would fill. The fifth attribute would
be delivery The fifth attribute would be delivery style. So, this is your tone, your style. So, this
is your tone, your rhythm, your speaking cadence, the way rhythm, your speaking cadence, the way you
come off on camera. For example, to you come off on camera. For example, to continue this in the
social media space, continue this in the social media space, let's say I saw everybody was let's say
I saw everybody was communicating in this like informal raw communicating in this like informal raw
way. Well, I could fill white space way. Well, I could fill white space being more professional,
buttoned up, being more professional, buttoned up, rigid, wearing a suit, for example. The rigid,
wearing a suit, for example. The sixth attribute is storytelling format.  sixth attribute is
storytelling format. So, this is pretty classic. You're So, this is pretty classic. You're
delivering storytelling formats that delivering storytelling formats that aren't typically being
used in your aren't typically being used in your niche. So, in the social media space, niche. So, in
the social media space, let's say I saw everybody making these let's say I saw everybody making
these ranking and tier lists and listical type ranking and tier lists and listical type videos, but
nobody was doing challenge videos, but nobody was doing challenge videos where they actually
challenge videos where they actually challenge themselves to go zero to 100k in 30 themselves to go
zero to 100k in 30 days. I saw white space there, and so I days. I saw white space there, and so I
filled it. And then the seventh filled it. And then the seventh attribute would be visual format.
So, attribute would be visual format. So, this is that you're filming or editing this is that you're
filming or editing laying videos out in a way that you laying videos out in a way that you typically
don't see in the niche. So, to typically don't see in the niche. So, to finish the example in social
media, if finish the example in social media, if everybody's shooting raw in their everybody's
shooting raw in their bedroom, you could come more cinematic bedroom, you could come more cinematic
or in a studio or just a completely or in a studio or just a completely different visual delivery.
So, those are different visual delivery. So, those are your seven options for how to find your seven
options for how to find differentiation or white space to create differentiation or white space to
create your own lane in a niche. Again, the your own lane in a niche. Again, the more crowded the
space is, the harder it more crowded the space is, the harder it is to carve one of those lanes, and
you is to carve one of those lanes, and you have to stack some of those together.  have to stack
some of those together. The more open the space is, the less you The more open the space is, the
less you have to do. You can just pick one, fill have to do. You can just pick one, fill it, and
you'll win. So, if we think it, and you'll win. So, if we think about how I approached the social
media about how I approached the social media growth space on Instagram 90 days ago, growth space on
Instagram 90 days ago, this is how I went through each of those this is how I went through each of
those seven categories and what I thought seven categories and what I thought about with respect to
if there was white about with respect to if there was white space that I could fill. And again, a
space that I could fill. And again, a lot of this is custom to me with my lot of this is custom to
me with my unique background and skills that I knew unique background and skills that I knew I had.
For you, you don't have the same I had. For you, you don't have the same skills and background and
proof as me, skills and background and proof as me, so you may have to approach this so you may have
to approach this differently even if you're attacking the differently even if you're attacking the
social media growth space. So, like I social media growth space. So, like I said, just to give
context, zero to 60k said, just to give context, zero to 60k followers in 90 days, growing about
followers in 90 days, growing about 1,000 followers a day, 5.5 million views 1,000 followers a day,
5.5 million views or so total. So, that means over 1% of or so total. So, that means over 1% of
people that see a video follow me. I've people that see a video follow me. I've driven over 20,000
collected emails and driven over 20,000 collected emails and over 100,000 in revenue during that
over 100,000 in revenue during that 90-day period. I should have over 90-day period. I should have
over 100,000 followers by the end of 2026.  100,000 followers by the end of 2026. Just to give you a
sense of like where Just to give you a sense of like where I'm at and how fast it's working. Now,
I'm at and how fast it's working. Now, here's how I thought about my here's how I thought about my
positioning across those seven buckets.  positioning across those seven buckets. The first one is
topic selection. So, The first one is topic selection. So, are there any topics not being covered
are there any topics not being covered in the social media growth space that I in the social media
growth space that I could fill? Candidly, social media could fill? Candidly, social media growth is
very competitive. A lot of the growth is very competitive. A lot of the topics have already been
covered. One topics have already been covered. One that I identified that was pretty open that I
identified that was pretty open was AI content workflows. So, anytime I was AI content workflows.
So, anytime I make a video about Claude and make a video about Claude and Sandcastles combined, it
crushes. That's Sandcastles combined, it crushes. That's my top category, and there's a reason my
top category, and there's a reason for that. Huge TAM, and it's kind of for that. Huge TAM, and it's
kind of open relative to some of the other open relative to some of the other stuff. So, that was
something that I stuff. So, that was something that I wanted to try to differentiate on a wanted to
try to differentiate on a little bit. This alone was not going to little bit. This alone was not
going to be my only competitive positioning be my only competitive positioning difference because I
didn't want my difference because I didn't want my whole account to be about AI. But, that whole
account to be about AI. But, that was definitely something I was going to was definitely something I
was going to add to the stack. Second bucket is add to the stack. Second bucket is substance depth,
right? So, this is how substance depth, right? So, this is how I approach topics people are already
I approach topics people are already covering, but going deeper and more covering, but going deeper
and more value. The current state of social media value. The current state of social media content,
for the most part, is very content, for the most part, is very surface-level. You see a lot of
people surface-level. You see a lot of people being like, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, being like,
"Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday." And they're just like listing Thursday." And they're just
like listing the formats with no value at all.  the formats with no value at all. Someone like Eva,
Personal Brand Launch, Someone like Eva, Personal Brand Launch, is actually very good at deeper is
actually very good at deeper substance. She goes a level deeper than substance. She goes a level
deeper than most people, which is why she grew so most people, which is why she grew so fast. She
was really like the only fast. She was really like the only social media growth content channel that
social media growth content channel that did this at scale 2 years ago. That was did this at scale 2
years ago. That was her significant positioning. But, I knew her significant positioning. But, I
knew I could approach it similar to her in a I could approach it similar to her in a different way.
I could also go deeper different way. I could also go deeper substance, but not copy what she was
substance, but not copy what she was doing, and I knew there was white space doing, and I knew there
was white space there. So, the substance is a core there. So, the substance is a core pillar where I
knew I could separate pillar where I knew I could separate from most people. And this kind of goes
from most people. And this kind of goes back to like my expertise background and back to like my
expertise background and how I articulate things. This is a how I articulate things. This is a
strong suit of mine, so I knew this strong suit of mine, so I knew this would be my anchor unique
positioning would be my anchor unique positioning differentiation. And by the way, when
differentiation. And by the way, when you hear me break this down, you can you hear me break this
down, you can hear the precision that goes into this hear the precision that goes into this type of
strategic exercise. I'm very type of strategic exercise. I'm very strategic with how I do this. I am
the strategic with how I do this. I am the type of person you're competing against type of person
you're competing against in a very competitive niche. So, just A, in a very competitive niche. So,
just A, accept that there are people that think accept that there are people that think about it at
this depth. And B, the about it at this depth. And B, the reason why you want to work with someone
reason why you want to work with someone like me is cuz I'll just tell you what like me is cuz I'll
just tell you what the positioning should be so you can the positioning should be so you can follow
it, so you can avoid the follow it, so you can avoid the wandering period where you don't know.
wandering period where you don't know. If you're not going to work with me, If you're not going to
work with me, there's only a handful of people in the there's only a handful of people in the world
that can kind of cut through the world that can kind of cut through the BS and tell you how to think
about it at BS and tell you how to think about it at this level. I recommend you find one of this
level. I recommend you find one of those and just pay them so you can avoid those and just pay them
so you can avoid the ignorance tax. All right, the third the ignorance tax. All right, the third
bucket is unique stories and scenarios.  bucket is unique stories and scenarios. Now, I have some
really great case Now, I have some really great case studies like the one I went through with
studies like the one I went through with Pat that I really rarely talk about cuz Pat that I really
rarely talk about cuz I don't like to lead with the case study I don't like to lead with the case
study proof. It feels sleazy and salesy to me.  proof. It feels sleazy and salesy to me. I also
don't like layering in those I also don't like layering in those examples when you have a very small
examples when you have a very small following. Something feels incongruent following. Something
feels incongruent about having 5,000 followers but being about having 5,000 followers but being
like, I helped this person grow to 100k.  like, I helped this person grow to 100k. It's very
misaligned. So, I like to wait It's very misaligned. So, I like to wait to use the case studies and
scenarios to use the case studies and scenarios until I'm a little bit bigger. So, for until I'm a
little bit bigger. So, for that reason, I wasn't planning on using that reason, I wasn't planning on
using this as a differentiation point in the this as a differentiation point in the first growth
phase. The fourth bucket first growth phase. The fourth bucket was avatar specificity. Now, rather
than was avatar specificity. Now, rather than talk broadly about social media growth talk broadly
about social media growth to everyone, I was going to dial in for to everyone, I was going to dial
in for social media for business owners. The social media for business owners. The thing is, there's
still a lot of people thing is, there's still a lot of people that are positioning themselves that
that are positioning themselves that way, social media for business owners.  way, social media for
business owners. So, although that was going to be part So, although that was going to be part of
how I wanted to come across, it of how I wanted to come across, it wasn't going to be enough wasn't
going to be enough differentiation alone to separate. The differentiation alone to separate. The
fifth bucket is delivery style. Now, I fifth bucket is delivery style. Now, I have a pretty unique
speaking cadence have a pretty unique speaking cadence and rhythm when it comes to content. I'm and
rhythm when it comes to content. I'm very good at annunciating my words so very good at annunciating
my words so that clarity is maxed out. This is one that clarity is maxed out. This is one of the
reasons why I've been able to of the reasons why I've been able to grow so fast on YouTube and it's
kind of grow so fast on YouTube and it's kind of like my calling card, right? It's just a like my
calling card, right? It's just a It's just a unique skill that I have.  It's just a unique skill
that I have. Also, on the delivery side, I dress in Also, on the delivery side, I dress in all
black. I have this kind of like all black. I have this kind of like cinematic set that is atypical
from what cinematic set that is atypical from what you typically see in social media. You you
typically see in social media. You don't see people articulating things don't see people
articulating things like this at this level of depth in this like this at this level of depth in
this visual package. So, for all of those visual package. So, for all of those reasons, delivery was
also something I reasons, delivery was also something I thought I could separate on by just thought
I could separate on by just executing in my normal style. Now, the executing in my normal style.
Now, the sixth attribute is storytelling formats.  sixth attribute is storytelling formats. Now,
when it comes to social media, Now, when it comes to social media, almost all the formats have been
tried almost all the formats have been tried and covered. The social media niche is and covered. The
social media niche is really where formats get born typically.  really where formats get born
typically. So, I knew there wasn't going to be much So, I knew there wasn't going to be much space
to differentiate on this space to differentiate on this attribute. Because of that, I was just
attribute. Because of that, I was just going to stick to what I'm good at, going to stick to what
I'm good at, breakdowns, explainers, and listicles.  breakdowns, explainers, and listicles. Now, you
can win by coming up with a Now, you can win by coming up with a unique format no one's ever seen
before, unique format no one's ever seen before, but that quickly gets cloned and but that quickly
gets cloned and commoditized. Just look at the Kumar commoditized. Just look at the Kumar thing. And
so, it's not easy to rely on thing. And so, it's not easy to rely on this to have consistent
advantage. So, this to have consistent advantage. So, for that reason, I just wasn't counting for
that reason, I just wasn't counting on any lift here. And then lastly was on any lift here. And then
lastly was visual format. Visually, I prefer the visual format. Visually, I prefer the premium,
high-polish, high-aesthetic, premium, high-polish, high-aesthetic, cinematic execution. That's just
what my cinematic execution. That's just what my eye suits. It's what I do on YouTube.  eye suits.
It's what I do on YouTube. It's what I do on my tech videos. Lots It's what I do on my tech videos.
Lots of the gurus talk about how this doesn't of the gurus talk about how this doesn't work and raw
is the only way to win.  work and raw is the only way to win. It's nonsense. I don't believe that at
It's nonsense. I don't believe that at all. Raw can work, the cinematic can all. Raw can work, the
cinematic can work, it can all work. It's just about work, it can all work. It's just about what are
you contrasting against what are you contrasting against relative to the field. So, the good news
relative to the field. So, the good news is most people try to do the raw stuff is most people try
to do the raw stuff on social media. I knew I could easily on social media. I knew I could easily
win with cinematic and polished, and so win with cinematic and polished, and so that's how I wanted
to come across that's how I wanted to come across visually. So, if you add those up, I had visually.
So, if you add those up, I had significant differentiation on substance significant differentiation
on substance and delivery style. I was going to come and delivery style. I was going to come across
differently visually, and I had a across differently visually, and I had a one-topic bucket that
most people one-topic bucket that most people weren't covering. If you multiply those weren't
covering. If you multiply those together, it makes me one of one in the together, it makes me one of
one in the niche. And so, that doesn't mean I'm niche. And so, that doesn't mean I'm guaranteed to
win, but at least if I guaranteed to win, but at least if I execute on the strategy correctly,
execute on the strategy correctly, there's open white space that I can run there's open white space
that I can run and fill into and then grow faster. Now, and fill into and then grow faster. Now,
people can try to copy the visual people can try to copy the visual execution, and they already
have, right?  execution, and they already have, right? The style I have, people try to copy The
style I have, people try to copy that. But the thing is, when you copy a that. But the thing is,
when you copy a visual style that most people think of visual style that most people think of one
person for, most of the value one person for, most of the value accrues back to me. When they see
that accrues back to me. When they see that style, they think of me in this niche.  style, they
think of me in this niche. So, if you copy it, you don't really get So, if you copy it, you don't
really get the lift. [music] Things like substance the lift. [music] Things like substance and
delivery style are way less easy to and delivery style are way less easy to copy, so there's a moat
there as well.  copy, so there's a moat there as well. Now, I will say, if you're watching Now, I
will say, if you're watching this, unless you're in the social media this, unless you're in the
social media growth space, which I know a lot of growth space, which I know a lot of people are who
are watching this, if people are who are watching this, if you're outside that, there's a good
you're outside that, there's a good chance your niche is way less chance your niche is way less
competitive than social media growth.  competitive than social media growth. The two niches I play
in, social media The two niches I play in, social media growth and AI, are two of the most growth
and AI, are two of the most competitive niches on the internet. I competitive niches on the
internet. I would say fitness and maybe like cooking would say fitness and maybe like cooking or
recipes or also super competitive, or recipes or also super competitive, although those TAMs are
massive. But although those TAMs are massive. But most other niches, there are small most other
niches, there are small pockets where they aren't that pockets where they aren't that competitive.
So, you have a ton of room competitive. So, you have a ton of room to come up with your own UPA. You
don't to come up with your own UPA. You don't really need to go so crazy like I did.  really need to
go so crazy like I did. Now, the best way to come up with what Now, the best way to come up with
what the options are that you could use for the options are that you could use for each of those
buckets is called each of those buckets is called transpositioning. So, what I recommend
transpositioning. So, what I recommend is first you look at your niche and try is first you look at
your niche and try to figure out what the baseline is to figure out what the baseline is that's
working on your niche. And you that's working on your niche. And you could use sandcastles.ai for
that. Just could use sandcastles.ai for that. Just build a channel list and then you can build a
channel list and then you can kind of look at what's working. But kind of look at what's working.
But then, if you can't find differentiation, then, if you can't find differentiation, what you want
to do is go to similar or what you want to do is go to similar or distant niches that are far from
yours, distant niches that are far from yours, look at what's working for them, and look at what's
working for them, and then bring some of that over to yours.  then bring some of that over to yours.
This is called transpositioning.  This is called transpositioning. Typically, you're not going to
outrun Typically, you're not going to outrun somebody by cloning the person that's in somebody by
cloning the person that's in your niche. If they're already better your niche. If they're already
better than you and they have a compounding than you and they have a compounding advantage, you're
typically not going to advantage, you're typically not going to outrun by copying them. So, what you
outrun by copying them. So, what you want to do is go somewhere else. If want to do is go somewhere
else. If you're in social media growth, go to you're in social media growth, go to like the vintage
hat niche, see what like the vintage hat niche, see what they're doing at the top of that niche,
they're doing at the top of that niche, and if there's something different that and if there's
something different that you don't see in social media, bring you don't see in social media, bring
that over. That's really where the alpha that over. That's really where the alpha and sauce is. And
this is why it's and sauce is. And this is why it's actually really helpful to study people actually
really helpful to study people outside of your niche. Now, the best way outside of your niche. Now,
the best way to get exposed to those is you can look to get exposed to those is you can look at
collections on sandcastles. We've at collections on sandcastles. We've hand-curated 105 different
collections hand-curated 105 different collections across formats, [music] across formats, [music]
signature series, editing styles, and signature series, editing styles, and visual hooks. Inside of
each collection visual hooks. Inside of each collection are between five and 10 of the are between
five and 10 of the best-performing videos for that type best-performing videos for that type across
all niches. So, there's probably across all niches. So, there's probably 500 to 1,000 different
videos that are 500 to 1,000 different videos that are hand-curated. These are top videos that
hand-curated. These are top videos that you can watch and get exposed to you can watch and get
exposed to different types of execution, different different types of execution, different types of
formats that are outside your types of formats that are outside your niche. I find this to be one of
the niche. I find this to be one of the fastest ways to just get exposure to fastest ways to just
get exposure to top-performing videos without having to top-performing videos without having to
reset your own social algorithms. So, if reset your own social algorithms. So, if you want to check
that out, I've linked you want to check that out, I've linked a couple of the collections below so
you a couple of the collections below so you can see how they work. All right, so can see how they
work. All right, so that is really the first piece around that is really the first piece around
strategic positioning. And I find that strategic positioning. And I find that to be really, really
helpful, especially to be really, really helpful, especially if you're playing in a competitive if
you're playing in a competitive niche. If you do the work up front to niche. If you do the work up
front to define what that white space lane could define what that white space lane could be, Then,
all you have to do is execute be, Then, all you have to do is execute on the content strategy, and
you will on the content strategy, and you will grow a lot faster. Now, the next piece grow a lot
faster. Now, the next piece is how you actually make the content.  is how you actually make the
content. Like, what is your content mix across Like, what is your content mix across different
topics that will help you different topics that will help you execute on that positioning? And I
execute on that positioning? And I recommend every single person run what I recommend every single
person run what I call the 3-2-1 content strategy. Now, call the 3-2-1 content strategy. Now, I've
built a ton of different content I've built a ton of different content strategies, and like I said,
worked with strategies, and like I said, worked with dozens and dozens of business owners dozens and
dozens of business owners testing all this. I'm very confident the testing all this. I'm very
confident the 3-2-1 is the best for most people. So, 3-2-1 is the best for most people. So, the
3-2-1 is very simple. You're going the 3-2-1 is very simple. You're going to come up with three
different topic to come up with three different topic buckets that you make two videos each buckets
that you make two videos each per week. So, that'll be six of your per week. So, that'll be six of
your seven weekly videos if you're posting seven weekly videos if you're posting once a day. The
seventh video is going once a day. The seventh video is going to be what I call the chaos agent.
This to be what I call the chaos agent. This can be a triple down on any of the three can be a
triple down on any of the three buckets, or just something random you buckets, or just something
random you saw in some other niche that you just saw in some other niche that you just want to try,
right? It's meant to be want to try, right? It's meant to be controlled chaos to inflict random
tests controlled chaos to inflict random tests so you can experiment outside of the so you can
experiment outside of the buckets. For the three main buckets, one buckets. For the three main
buckets, one of your buckets is going to be more of your buckets is going to be more broadly
positioned. So, it's still going broadly positioned. So, it's still going to be a topic that will
accrue trust and to be a topic that will accrue trust and authority to you in the niche, but it's
authority to you in the niche, but it's meant to be a little bit broader so you meant to be a little
bit broader so you can have a chance at virality to bring a can have a chance at virality to bring a
ton more people into the zeitgeist. The ton more people into the zeitgeist. The other two buckets
are going to be more other two buckets are going to be more narrowly positioned. These will be
narrowly positioned. These will be specific buckets that are very valuable specific buckets that are
very valuable to your specific ideal viewer avatar and to your specific ideal viewer avatar and
buyer. And so, these can come from pain buyer. And so, these can come from pain points you know they
have, outcomes you points you know they have, outcomes you know they want, things that have come
know they want, things that have come from client conversations, or topics from client
conversations, or topics you've seen covered that you know matter you've seen covered that you know
matter for your ideal viewer. And those two for your ideal viewer. And those two narrow buckets are
not meant to go super narrow buckets are not meant to go super viral. Instead, they're meant to go
viral. Instead, they're meant to go deeper and drive more conversion and deeper and drive more
conversion and trust accrual per view. So, three trust accrual per view. So, three buckets, two
videos each, one chaos buckets, two videos each, one chaos agent. 3-2-1. Now, to figure out what
agent. 3-2-1. Now, to figure out what these three buckets are going to be, you these three buckets
are going to be, you can either randomly guess, so you take a can either randomly guess, so you take
a piece of paper, you write down all the piece of paper, you write down all the most important
topics you think matter, most important topics you think matter, you pick three, you randomly guess,
you you pick three, you randomly guess, you make videos across those three for a few make videos
across those three for a few weeks, let the data tell you, and then weeks, let the data tell you,
and then iterate. That's the less data-backed way iterate. That's the less data-backed way to do it,
but like the quickest, just to do it, but like the quickest, just random guess. The other way to do
it, random guess. The other way to do it, which is what I recommend, is you which is what I
recommend, is you research the top competitors in your research the top competitors in your niche
between 25,000 and 250,000 niche between 25,000 and 250,000 followers. You do a deep analysis, which
followers. You do a deep analysis, which I'll walk through how to do in a second.  I'll walk through
how to do in a second. You let that tell you which topic You let that tell you which topic buckets
are working best, and then you buckets are working best, and then you pick three from there. Now,
the fastest pick three from there. Now, the fastest way to do this, this exercise, which I way to do
this, this exercise, which I recommend everyone do, you first go to recommend everyone do, you first
go to Sandcastle's, and you need to build a Sandcastle's, and you need to build a channel list of
your top competitors in channel list of your top competitors in your niche. If you don't know who
they your niche. If you don't know who they are, just go to Sandcastle's, go to the are, just go to
Sandcastle's, go to the channels tab, go to describe, and just channels tab, go to describe, and
just type in the topics that you cover, or type in the topics that you cover, or whatever you
describe your niche as.  whatever you describe your niche as. Sandcastle's will suggest the top
Sandcastle's will suggest the top channels that fit that description. You channels that fit that
description. You can either add all of them into the can either add all of them into the channel
list just by pressing add all or channel list just by pressing add all or the plus, or you can pick
one of them the plus, or you can pick one of them that you recognize, add that one in, and that you
recognize, add that one in, and then press the arrows that say more like then press the arrows that
say more like this, which will hone the search to be this, which will hone the search to be closer
to that person. If you don't want closer to that person. If you don't want to do it this way, you
can also scroll to do it this way, you can also scroll on your For You page, or look at your on your
For You page, or look at your explore page until you see videos come explore page until you see
videos come up that you like. Take that person's up that you like. Take that person's channel
profile, go to the channels tab, channel profile, go to the channels tab, either search for them or
add the URL either search for them or add the URL in, and build your channel list that in, and build
your channel list that way. Either way, you want to build this way. Either way, you want to build
this channel list of competitors. Every channel list of competitors. Every single person that makes
content has single person that makes content has done this. This is the most valuable done this.
This is the most valuable exercise you could do. Your goal is exercise you could do. Your goal is
about 20 to 25 competitor channels about 20 to 25 competitor channels between 25 and 250,000
followers in that between 25 and 250,000 followers in that Sandcastle's watch list. Now, once you
Sandcastle's watch list. Now, once you have that done, go to the videos tab, have that done, go to
the videos tab, you will automatically see all of the you will automatically see all of the videos
from those channels listed in the videos from those channels listed in the videos tab. I want you to
go up to sort, videos tab. I want you to go up to sort, press outlier score. I want you to go to
press outlier score. I want you to go to post date, and do last 3 months. And post date, and do last
3 months. And then for engagement rate, put the then for engagement rate, put the minimum bound at
2%, which filters out minimum bound at 2%, which filters out any of the paid brand deals. Now,
you've any of the paid brand deals. Now, you've got the top performing videos got the top performing
videos organically from the last 3 months from organically from the last 3 months from all those
competitors in one place. Now, all those competitors in one place. Now, you can easily open each of
these in a you can easily open each of these in a new tab and watch them. If you just new tab and
watch them. If you just hover over, you can see how to do that.  hover over, you can see how to do
that. But, the much faster way is to deep But, the much faster way is to deep analyze all these
videos, and let Claude analyze all these videos, and let Claude tell you what the best performing
topics tell you what the best performing topics are. So, to analyze, you can hover over are. So, to
analyze, you can hover over a video and click the analyze button one a video and click the analyze
button one by one, or you can go to bulk analyze at by one, or you can go to bulk analyze at the
top, type in either 50 or 100, which the top, type in either 50 or 100, which will be 100 videos
analyzed at once, and will be 100 videos analyzed at once, and it will automatically deep analyze
the it will automatically deep analyze the top 100, or whatever number you put in.  top 100, or
whatever number you put in. Doing this will spend one credit per Doing this will spend one credit
per video, so 50 is a good number to start video, so 50 is a good number to start with. Now, let
that run for 5 to 10 with. Now, let that run for 5 to 10 minutes and you will see the little minutes
and you will see the little green analyze badge on all the videos.  green analyze badge on all the
videos. It'll say done in the upper right. Once It'll say done in the upper right. Once it's done,
go to export and export that it's done, go to export and export that data into a CSV. You will now
have all data into a CSV. You will now have all of the videos you deep analyzed, the of the videos
you deep analyzed, the transcript, the topic, the hook, the transcript, the topic, the hook, the
format, the storytelling structure, format, the storytelling structure, literally all the data you
would need literally all the data you would need about those videos. You're going to grab about
those videos. You're going to grab that, you're going to drag them to a new that, you're going to
drag them to a new chat in Claude, you're going to use the chat in Claude, you're going to use the
Fable 5 model, and you're going to run Fable 5 model, and you're going to run this prompt. My goal
is to build a this prompt. My goal is to build a high-value authority audience in insert high-value
authority audience in insert niche, put your niche there. I want you niche, put your niche there. I
want you to build a visual distribution that to build a visual distribution that breaks down the
top-performing topic breaks down the top-performing topic buckets across all of the videos in the
buckets across all of the videos in the file I gave you. This is a deep analysis file I gave you.
This is a deep analysis pull of the top X videos, however many pull of the top X videos, however
many you did, from the top channels in my you did, from the top channels in my niche. Screen out any
video that doesn't niche. Screen out any video that doesn't make sense for my niche, if it's about
make sense for my niche, if it's about their personality or whatever, screen their personality or
whatever, screen those out. My goal is to come up with those out. My goal is to come up with one
broader-reaching viral topic bucket one broader-reaching viral topic bucket and two more narrow
topic buckets for and two more narrow topic buckets for the avatar that I'm trying to cover. You the
avatar that I'm trying to cover. You can add more information about your can add more information
about your avatar to help clarify it, I recommend avatar to help clarify it, I recommend as much
detail as possible, and then as much detail as possible, and then press run. This will run for 5
minutes press run. This will run for 5 minutes and it will give you a visual and it will give you a
visual distribution breaking down the topic distribution breaking down the topic performance for all
of those videos.  performance for all of those videos. This will tell you exactly what topics This
will tell you exactly what topics are working best, and you can pick three are working best, and you
can pick three from there. Now, based on the three you from there. Now, based on the three you pick,
you're going to run the 3-2-1 pick, you're going to run the 3-2-1 strategy. You're going to do that
for 2 strategy. You're going to do that for 2 weeks, and then you're going to come weeks, and then
you're going to come back and you're going to re-evaluate how back and you're going to re-evaluate
how it's working. If you notice some of the it's working. If you notice some of the buckets are not
performing at all across buckets are not performing at all across any of the four videos you made
across any of the four videos you made across those 2 weeks, you're going to kill that those 2
weeks, you're going to kill that bucket, and you're going to promote a bucket, and you're going to
promote a new bucket, either from the initial new bucket, either from the initial research list or
something that your research list or something that your random controlled chaos agent surfaced,
random controlled chaos agent surfaced, [music] you can bring that to a new [music] you can bring
that to a new bucket. This is the fastest way to use bucket. This is the fastest way to use data to
make sure your allocation of data to make sure your allocation of time towards content is working
the time towards content is working the best. Now, once you have done these two best. Now, once you
have done these two strategic exercises, number one, you strategic exercises, number one, you
identified your unique strategic identified your unique strategic position, and number two, you
mapped out position, and number two, you mapped out the 3-2-1 strategy, you'll only have the 3-2-1
strategy, you'll only have three questions left. Number one is how three questions left. Number one
is how do I actually make the winning video?  do I actually make the winning video? Like, I have the
topics, but how do I Like, I have the topics, but how do I write the hooks? How do I write the write
the hooks? How do I write the substance? How do I edit it? Right?  substance? How do I edit it?
Right? That's That's bucket one. Number two, if That's That's bucket one. Number two, if you're busy
or a business owner, how do you're busy or a business owner, how do I build a team that can actually
help me I build a team that can actually help me do these videos for me? And number do these videos
for me? And number three, how do I evaluate which videos three, how do I evaluate which videos are
working and not? And specifically are working and not? And specifically the ones that are working,
how do I the ones that are working, how do I extract the learnings to apply to my extract the
learnings to apply to my future videos? Those are the three big future videos? Those are the three
big questions you'll have once you solve questions you'll have once you solve these two strategic
pieces. Now, for these two strategic pieces. Now, for those first two questions, how do I make those
first two questions, how do I make the videos? How do I make a team? This the videos? How do I make
a team? This is what I help people with in SFA. I is what I help people with in SFA. I work
one-on-one with business owners to work one-on-one with business owners to help you make winning
videos, help you help you make winning videos, help you build a team. You come in, I review your
build a team. You come in, I review your videos, get you good, and then you videos, get you good,
and then you graduate out. So, if you want to work graduate out. So, if you want to work with me for
that, I've got a link below.  with me for that, I've got a link below. Now, for the third question,
how do I Now, for the third question, how do I know what's working? This is where you know what's
working? This is where you want to use the Sandcastles dashboard.  want to use the Sandcastles
dashboard. If you click the dashboard tab, you will If you click the dashboard tab, you will notice,
once you verify your social notice, once you verify your social channels, we are running a content
channels, we are running a content strategy report for you every 7 days. If strategy report for you
every 7 days. If you scroll to the bottom of the page, you scroll to the bottom of the page, you'll
see the top-performing topics, you'll see the top-performing topics, hooks, formats, and
scriptwriting hooks, formats, and scriptwriting techniques automatically run for your techniques
automatically run for your last batch of videos. You can click on last batch of videos. You can
click on any of those subcategories, and to the any of those subcategories, and to the right side we
will tell you specifically right side we will tell you specifically what is working and what's not
working, what is working and what's not working, what you should keep doing, and what you what you
should keep doing, and what you should not keep doing. So, once you have should not keep doing. So,
once you have your channels verified and you turn that your channels verified and you turn that on,
it will be a machine that just on, it will be a machine that just surfaces you insights for what's
working surfaces you insights for what's working and not working automatically. You can and not
working automatically. You can see it in the dashboard whenever you see it in the dashboard whenever
you want. We also send you an email every want. We also send you an email every time we run that
report. This has been time we run that report. This has been hands-down the favorite feature we've
hands-down the favorite feature we've ever launched. I look at this dashboard ever launched. I look
at this dashboard literally every day because it tells me literally every day because it tells me
what to make and what not to make. If what to make and what not to make. If you want to learn more
about how to get you want to learn more about how to get the dashboard set up and how I'm using the
dashboard set up and how I'm using it, like what I'm looking at in the it, like what I'm looking at
in the metrics, I've got a tutorial linked metrics, I've got a tutorial linked below for you. All
right, guys, that is below for you. All right, guys, that is all I've got for this video. As all
I've got for this video. As promised, I wanted to go deep down the promised, I wanted to go deep
down the rabbit hole on how to actually build rabbit hole on how to actually build your strategy
around becoming micro your strategy around becoming micro famous in any category. First, we talked
famous in any category. First, we talked about what being micro famous is and the about what being
micro famous is and the conditions that changed in the social conditions that changed in the social
media world that make it possible to do media world that make it possible to do this faster now.
Then, as promised, we this faster now. Then, as promised, we went through what I think are the two
went through what I think are the two most valuable strategy exercises you most valuable strategy
exercises you could do. One, defining your unique could do. One, defining your unique strategic
positioning, and two, defining strategic positioning, and two, defining what those buckets would be
for the 321 what those buckets would be for the 321 content strategy. Obviously, there's a content
strategy. Obviously, there's a lot more to it from there in terms of lot more to it from there in
terms of how to actually make the videos and how to actually make the videos and improve them over
time. If you want to improve them over time. If you want to work directly with me on that, I've got
work directly with me on that, I've got links below. If you don't, I recommend links below. If you
don't, I recommend you linking up with some coach that can you linking up with some coach that can
help you cuz it will speed up your cycle help you cuz it will speed up your cycle of iteration. If
you're a business owner of iteration. If you're a business owner or a serious creator, you can
probably or a serious creator, you can probably tell this will be one of the most tell this will be
one of the most valuable channels you could watch in valuable channels you could watch in terms of
how to learn content to grow terms of how to learn content to grow your business. So, make sure to
like, your business. So, make sure to like, make sure to subscribe, and definitely make sure to
subscribe, and definitely drop a comment on what you're struggling drop a comment on what you're
struggling with on the content front. I look at with on the content front. I look at those comments
to help guide the next those comments to help guide the next video, so it's super helpful when you
video, so it's super helpful when you do. I've got a bunch of free stuff in do. I've got a bunch of
free stuff in the description to help you get started the description to help you get started with a
lot of these things, so make sure with a lot of these things, so make sure to check out all of that.
I'm trying my to check out all of that. I'm trying my best to help people grow as fast as best to
help people grow as fast as possible. All right, we will see you possible. All right, we will see
you guys on the next one. Peace.
