Check this out. 66% of Gen Z shoppers in the United States have brought a product they first saw through a content creator or an influencer. And globally, over 55% of Gen Z and millennials consider buying from their favorite influencer verse traditional ads. Making money with affiliate marketing has actually become a lot easier since we're now entering the age of influencers. My name is Daryl Wilson and I've been doing affiliate marketing for like the last 10 years already. I average about $50 to $60,000 a month in commissions. And I know that sounds crazy, but let me show you. Here's an affiliate program where I've literally earned about half a million dollars. Yep, I know that sounds crazy, but here's another and another and another. Okay, you get the point, right? So, in this affiliate marketing tutorial, I'll walk you through everything step by step. I'll show you how to join the best affiliate programs. There are some good ones and there are some bad ones. I'll also show you how to get your referral links, what kind of content works in 2026, and the best places to post content. Plus, I'll show you how to get traffic that actually converts. Now, I know there's a lot of YouTube videos out there that teach about affiliate marketing. But if you give me 20 minutes, I will teach you everything that you need to know about affiliate marketing in 2026. So, let's start with the basics, right? What is affiliate marketing? Affiliate marketing is when you earn money by promoting a company's product or service and getting paid when visitors sign up through your affiliate link. An affiliate link is given to you once you sign up to a company that offers an affiliate program. Almost every business today has an affiliate program. And here's an example. This is nike.com. And nike.com offers 15% on any sale purchased through your affiliate link. And there's also Amazon. Now, Amazon offers a mixed commission structure depending on what the customer buys. For example, if they buy something like physical books, you'll get a 4.5% commission rates. If they buy something like physical video games, then you'll get a one commission rate. So, they do have a list of commission rates depending on what the customer buys. And there's also Shopify. Now, this is a service and Shopify will pay you $150 for every eligible sale that comes through your affiliate link. And there's other companies that offer recurring commissions. So, elicade.com, they offer a 50% commission rate and they'll pay you commissions every single year as long as that customer remains a customer. So, first, let me show you how to sign up with an affiliate program. So, let's take Elegant Themes for example. Now, most of these websites, you have to scroll to the bottom of their page, and you should look for something like partners or affiliate program. So scrolling way here at the bottom, if you'll see under community, they have affiliate program. Now, a lot of companies tend to hide the affiliate program because they don't really want to market it, right? So they put it like at the footer of their websites. And all you got to do is just click on, you know, register or become an affiliate and then just make your affiliate account. Once you make your account, you can then log into your affiliate dashboard. And here is my affiliate dashboard. So this is my current earnings and this is how much I've made total with this affiliate program. Now, right here, you're going to see this link. All you got to do is copy this link and then paste this link anywhere like on your YouTube channel, on your TikTok, or anywhere you want to promote this company. Now, I bet you're wondering, how did you make half a million dollars through this program? Well, let me show you. Now, on my YouTube channel, I teach people how to use website builders. And for example, I've been doing this for a while, guys. So, I have tutorials that date back to 2021. So, it did take me a lot of time to earn that money. Now, let's say, for example, we click on one of my tutorials right here. And you're going to see that it has about 282,000 views, and this was about 3 years ago. And right here, you're going to see that this is my affiliate link. Now, in order to actually follow this tutorial, they have to click on that link, and they have to purchase Divvy and then they're brought to Elegant Themes. And then from here, the customers can now buy the Divvy theme. Now, some websites actually don't have their affiliate program on their websites. You'll have to join a marketplace and there's a few popular ones to choose from. The first one is impact.com. Now, this website has a variety of different affiliate programs you can join from one location. Also, awind.com. This was previously known as share a sale. So, for those old schools marketers out there, they changed the name of the brand and they have a lot of programs you can join as well. And also, partner stack where they actually have a few programs you can join. And all you got to do is just sign up and make an account. So, I'll go ahead and log into my impact account. Now, once you're logged into a marketplace up here under discover, you can actually find brands. So, here I'll click on find brands. And here is a list of affiliate programs that you can join. So we have Clean Email that offers a 30% commission rate. We have Southwest Airlines offering 2.5%. Enterprise Rent a Car 2% and then we have Hilton 2.5%. So I'm over here in my impact account and let's say for example you join an affiliate program and you're ready to promote it. I'll go ahead and select Omnisend and oops, there we go. Omnisend and then I'll create my affiliate link. And here is my affiliate link. Now, instead of actually going and placing this on like Tik Tok or something or like a YouTube video like something like that, it just looks really messy. It doesn't look clean and not professional, right? So, what I recommend to do is install an affiliate link tracker now. I am currently using Pretty Links, but there's a variety of others to choose from. So, there's like Thirsty Affiliates, Pretty Link, and a few others. Now, I'm using WordPress. So, if you guys want to learn how to use WordPress, I have a tutorial in the video description. So, what PrettyLinks does here is that it actually tracks how many times people are clicking the link. And you can see I have a lot of clicks on specific links. For Naden, we have more than 10,000 clicks. And you know, this gives you an idea of if people are actually clicking on your link. You're going to see that I already have, you know, a uh an Omniscent affiliate link, but I'll just show you how to create one. And this will actually make it really clean. It'll make it look nice. You can also track how many times people are clicking on the link. So, for example, I'll just put like, you know, Omnisense Omnisense affiliates program or something, right? And for the redirection, I like putting permanent. That essentially just going to make sure that this is a permanent link here. I will place the link right here under target URL. And then for the pretty link, it's like, what do you want it to say? Well, I'll put like go slash omnisend or you can put whatever. And I'll click on update. It's supposed to say create, but I think there's some sort of weird bug with this link or this uh this plugin or whatever. And then now you're going to see that we have this link. And all I got to do is copy it. And if I go over here and I paste it, you're going to see this is my new affiliate link. And if we press enter, you're seeing it's coming from my website, right, darylesson.com. It just brings them back to the actual website, but it also displays the link in a really nice, clean format. Now, the great part about affiliate marketing is you don't have to worry about returns or shipping or customer support or inventory or any of that stuff. All you do is recommend the product and you get paid. And many of you watching this video are probably affiliate marketers at heart, and you probably just don't know it yet. Have you ever told a family member or friend about something that was delicious, like a protein bar or juice at Target or Walmart, and then they went out and bought it? Congrats, you just did affiliate marketing. So, now that we know about affiliate marketing, you might be asking, well, what are the best affiliate programs to join in 2026? So, people say this a lot, but I think what they're trying to say is what is the best niche to join for affiliate marketing? because technically whatever makes you the most money is the best affiliate program. But let's make it simple. There are three general categories with affiliate marketing with some pros and cons. First up, we have physical products. Physical products can be easier to sell to people because people like to buy things that are tangible. Plus, many times people will recognize the supplier like Amazon or Target. The highest demand niches for physical products is health and beauty, home and clothes, and fitness. For example, Sephora's affiliate program offers commission rates of about 5%. Vitamin World offers 8% commission rates for their products and Under Armour offers 10% commission rates. And lastly, we have Amazon.com. Their commission rates range from 1% all the way to 25%. Yet, there is a downside. On Amazon.com, their commission rates for physical products is under 5%. But don't be fooled. They have a very high conversion rate. That means people are more likely to buy from Amazon than they are some random website they never heard about. Next, we have digital products. Digital products offer some pretty high commission rates with the average commission rate being around 50%. For example, NordVPN will give you 40% commission rates for new signups and even 30% for renewals. And elegant themes.com, they offer 50% recurring commission rates for their WordPress theme. Now, before you run off to go promote digital products, let me explain the cons. There is two cons that I want to go over. The first one is lack of payments. I've joined so many affiliate programs for digital products and then they just didn't pay me or they were very late or they paid me like 6 months later. Now, that is not the case with all of them. Some programs they pay me on time every single month and some of them well I haven't even received a payment. There's a lot of fly by night digital product companies. In order to protect yourself, make sure you join it through a marketplace. These are more regulated and well-established software companies. So you shouldn't have a problem with payments if you join it through a marketplace. And the second con is premium models. Any company offering a free and pro version, I typically try to avoid it. Many of the times customers will just go directly to their websites or they'll buy the service after the cookies expire. I have terrible results with free models, so I typically try to avoid them. And lastly, services. Services can range from banking, web hosting, cryptocurrency, airline tickets, and insuranceances. These commission rates are awesome, but they're very broad. They range from about 2% all the way to 300%, just depending on what you're promoting. Southwest Airlines offers about a 2% commission rate. Cryptocurrency websites like Coinbase will offer 50% of all trading fees in the first 3 months. And web hosting, they can offer up to 300% for whatever the customer spends. I mentioned Shopify earlier. Shopify offers 150 bucks regardless of how much the customer spends. Some companies are willing to buy a customer for a certain price regardless of how much they spend. That's because the average lifespan of this customer will generally spend more than Shopify originally paid out. And remember, you can always mix it up when promoting services and products. And to give you an example, this right here is a video about Cambodia travel. Now, I personally live in Southeast Asia. I see these like backpackers come through all the time. They're kind of weirdos or like these hippie style people. So anyways, let's take a look at the video description here. If you look at the video description, they place a lot of links. Now, I personally think these guys kind of overdid it, but I guess this is still helpful, right? So, they're posting links to their websites to affiliate companies probably in Cambodia. Also, Booking.com. So, they're posting direct links to these services and they also posted their other videos. And then also, they have car rentals and a whole bunch of other services. So, you don't have to just dedicate yourself to like one specific product or service. You can always diversify it into a variety of different services. But in my experience, services have always worked better for me. If you show the value of a product, you'll always find some sucker, I mean a buyer to buy the service. Moving on. Next, let's talk about the most important thing. How to get traffic. And this is where beginners typically get everything wrong. You don't just get traffic, you got to earn it. You can't just pump out garbage content or AI spam and expect people to actually engage with your offers. So, where should you start? If you have nothing to your name, you're broke, no girlfriend, everyone hates you. Where should you start with affiliate marketing? Well, first you need a website. You need a home base. A website allows you to bring traffic to all your affiliate offers, capture email leads, and utilize this traffic. I have a video showing you how to do this in like 20 minutes. So, I'll put that tutorial in the video description, but it's simple. You go over to Hostinger, use my coupon code, Daryl 10, which gives you an additional 10% off any of their plans. Then, you install WordPress, import a template, and you're all ready to go. If you want to use my coupon code, Daryl 10, you can go ahead and use it. If you don't want to use my coupon code, Daryl 10. Really? I mean, what's your problem? Anyways, let's keep going. And guess what? That was affiliate marketing. I'm recommending a service that you kind of need to have in order to start affiliate marketing, which is a good strategy. Let's say you want to teach Photoshop. People are going to have to buy Photoshop in order to follow the video, right? It's a good strategy to recommend a service that they have to have in order to follow the video. But let's talk about the most important topic, traffic. Here's some ways on how you can generate traffic. short-term video contents, long- form video contents, blogging, social media marketing, and parasite SEO. Short video is nice, but it doesn't really push people to buy. It's good for branding and awareness, but that's about it. Here's some quick analytics about short form video. The conversion rates reach around 2%. It's good for branding, but it's really hard to convert. Short form content isn't for everybody. For me personally, it doesn't work because I'm in the tech sector teaching longer tutorials. So, it's really hard to teach people how to make a website in 2 minutes. [music] However, I have seen other niches where it works really well. I've seen many YouTube shorts with videos of women shopping on Amazon. These videos hit the tens of millions of views. They talk about some of the best products to buy from Amazon, and I think for that niche, it works a lot better. Next, we have my favorites, long- form content. This is where the money's at. People are truly sold when viewing long- form content. I receive an average of about $50,000 a month from commissions using long- form content. Plus, for every 350,000 views on YouTube, I make about $8,000. Not bad. Here's some quick stats about long- form contents. Long- form content has the best conversion rates in the industry at about 5%. And those other women promoting Amazon products on their Tik Tok or YouTube shorts, long- form content might not work well for them because a lot of people buy those products on impulse buys from Shorts. Next, we have traditional blogging. Blogging is dead. Don't do it. I really wouldn't recommend blogging in 2026, but there are a few exceptions. If you are part of a company trying to promote your product and services through creating blog posts, that makes sense. But I think that's about it. So, why don't I recommend blogging anymore in 2026? Well, there's a lot of reasons. It's too competitive. Today, large authority brands who dump millions of dollars into SEO dominate the search engines. Your energy is better off spent somewhere else. You can easily start creating video content, getting paid for it, and make commissions right away. Now, if you do start blogging, you know, God help you. Just don't expect any serious results for at least the first 3 to 6 months. SEO is a long-term process, so getting your blog post ranked on the first few pages, it's going to take a lot of time. But what about parasite SEO? What is even parasite SEO? No, you're not actually becoming a parasite, but you're just borrowing the strength of bigger websites to get your content ranking faster. Why spend countless hours blogging trying to rank content on your websites when you can blog on large domain authority websites and rank your content quickly? See, platforms like LinkedIn and Medium have huge domain authority. Google loves them. When you post an article on these platforms, you bypass the usual struggle of trying to rank your brand new posts on your website. I'll type in Blogify Review and the very first result is actually a Medium article. What the hell is Medium? Well, regardless, it's a blogging platform that does rank content for low competitive keywords and even competitive keywords on the front page of Google. In fact, on the first page of Google for this specific keyword, there's actually two other LinkedIn articles ranking for this keyword. If you do want to start blogging, I personally recommend the parasite SEO method. This way you can leverage the domain authority of high domain authority websites like LinkedIn and Medium to get your content ranked faster on the first page of Google. Lastly, we have social media marketing. Now, I personally do not recommend this method. Now, what is that? So, I'm talking about Pinterest. I'm talking about Facebook. I'm talking about Twitter. I personally think these methods are just exhausted. Mainly because people over the years have really developed social media fatigue. I have a Facebook group with over 15,000 members and guess what? No one buys. my Pinterest. I have thousands of pins and I'm lucky to get one conversion a month. Again, I'm not saying social media platforms don't work. I just think your energy is better spent somewhere else. But where? Well, let me give you my recommendations on how to get traffic. Number one, start strong with long- form video content. This is the best way to build a long-term brand and generate long-term commissions by building a brand that people can trust. Number two, obviously, short form content. Now, this does not work in all niches, but it's easy to get views and traction from shorts. The best part is you can syndicate your content on YouTube, Instagram, Tik Tok, and even Pinterest. Post these sparingly. And number three, parasite SEO. Give this a try. Start blogging on Medium or LinkedIn about your niche, and just see what happens. You have nothing to lose. Aim for at least one video every two weeks, one short every two weeks, or one blog post every week. And think of this like a numbers game. If you post every single week for an entire year, it's probable that you're going to start getting some [music] commissions. Now, let's talk strategy. I'll give you some bonus tips. And remember this, people like to buy, but they just hate being sold to, right? Let me give you some examples. Here's my YouTube video talking about Google Flow and the new amazing AI video maker. Now, I'm showing people how to use Google Flow, but the thing is, it's actually restricted in some countries. So, I actually recommend NordVPN in my video description. I briefly only mention it for about 10 seconds. And guess what? A lot of people use my link. In fact, I made a few hundred in the first month, and I wasn't even trying to sell them. It was just quick and brief. I mean, just ask yourself, would you want to watch a video on Omnisend email review or three emails we send that make us $500 a day? Now, both are promoting Omnisense, but one title is more interesting than the other. Now, both are technically promoting Omnisend, but one is like a review only about Omnisend, and the other is an indirect promotion of Omnisend. So, I feel like indirect promotions, they just work much better today. I personally like to indirectly promote companies than direct promotion. Also, remember this. People that are watching your videos, they're constantly being sold to every day by other companies and influencers, which is really exhausting and annoying, right? But to sum up this entire video, the number one thing that you must bring to your audience and all your viewers is value. How many times have you watched the video and realized you got nothing out of it? So, don't be that person. Make content that will actually impact a viewer and also earn you a loyal subscriber. So, let's sum this up. Affiliate marketing 2026, it's all about bringing trust, bringing value, and also showing up consistently. I think people prefer to watch my content because I'm willing to say some products are good, but I'm also willing to say some products are trash. I don't want to be those affiliates that say every product is good because then you're just a commercial with no value. If you found this video helpful, make sure to give it a big thumbs up. My name is Daryl Wilson and I will see all of you party people in the next video. Take care.