I want to start off with just a simple question. How many of you actually post question. How many of you actually post organic content? Okay, pretty much every organic content? Okay, pretty much every single one in this room. How many of you single one in this room. How many of you have signed clients with organic have signed clients with organic content? content? How many of you make 100K per month with How many of you make 100K per month with organic content? organic content? Okay, just three of them. [laughter] Okay, just three of them. [laughter] 300 400. Okay, just just two now. [laughter] Okay, just just two now. [laughter] So my goal today with this presentation So my goal today with this presentation and this talk is to actually show you

and this talk is to actually show you what our 400k a month organic flywheel what our 400k a month organic flywheel system actually looks like so that you system actually looks like so that you can actually take it and implement it can actually take it and implement it for yourself. And I was in a lot of you for yourself. And I was in a lot of you guys' position just a year ago. I was guys' position just a year ago. I was posting content but nothing actually posting content but nothing actually really hit. And I basically made it my really hit. And I basically made it my mission to crack organic because this mission to crack organic because this was the biggest lever that I can pull to was the biggest lever that I can pull to create the biggest advantage in my create the biggest advantage in my industry. And what ended up happening industry. And what ended up happening was I raised my prices from $5,000 to

was I raised my prices from $5,000 to $45,000. I went from 5k followers to $45,000. I went from 5k followers to $122,000 followers. And I went from $122,000 followers. And I went from 5,000 subscribers to 27.8 subscribers 5,000 subscribers to 27.8 subscribers all in a span of 2 years. all in a span of 2 years. My total cash went from 51,000 cash My total cash went from 51,000 cash collected to over $48,000 cash with an collected to over $48,000 cash with an 85% close rate and 93% show rate. And so 85% close rate and 93% show rate. And so I'm going to cover the three biggest I'm going to cover the three biggest changes that I actually implemented that changes that I actually implemented that you can implement this as well. And you can implement this as well. And number one, I'm going to go over how you number one, I'm going to go over how you can actually lower your audience's

can actually lower your audience's guard, how you can find your unique guard, how you can find your unique mechanism, and how you can actually mechanism, and how you can actually treat your brand like a media company. treat your brand like a media company. Okay, so the first one is lowering your Okay, so the first one is lowering your guard. How many of you sell a service? guard. How many of you sell a service? Every single one of you. The problem is Every single one of you. The problem is that everyone is focused on creating that everyone is focused on creating content to get clients. And that's when content to get clients. And that's when they actually never build a brand. When they actually never build a brand. When you think about the biggest people in you think about the biggest people in the space, the best personal brands the space, the best personal brands don't actually feel like they're selling

don't actually feel like they're selling anything. And when you look at Hermos's anything. And when you look at Hermos's rise to the top, rise to the top, the the line that he used all the time the the line that he used all the time was, I have nothing to sell you. And he was, I have nothing to sell you. And he said that for years and years and years, said that for years and years and years, and he built that amount of goodwill. and he built that amount of goodwill. Now, what does that fundamentally do Now, what does that fundamentally do when someone feels like there's nothing when someone feels like there's nothing to benefit from you? to benefit from you? It lowers your guard, right? It lowers It lowers your guard, right? It lowers your guard and you're able to be your guard and you're able to be influenced. And then when he decided to

influenced. And then when he decided to go and pitch something, he was able to go and pitch something, he was able to make a $100 million in a single day make a $100 million in a single day because of all that pent up goodwill because of all that pent up goodwill and he had a bunch of upsells and he and he had a bunch of upsells and he made so much money in that single event made so much money in that single event in that in that webinar and now he's in that in that webinar and now he's actively selling the workshops and actively selling the workshops and everything. Right now, when you watch everything. Right now, when you watch these brands, it feels like they aren't these brands, it feels like they aren't selling. And so what this fundamentally selling. And so what this fundamentally does is it lowers your guard and it does is it lowers your guard and it allows you to become easily influenced,

allows you to become easily influenced, which makes the entire process so much which makes the entire process so much easier. When I look at your guys's easier. When I look at your guys's content, the first thing I think about content, the first thing I think about is like, what does this guy want from is like, what does this guy want from me? Because you're giving so much value. me? Because you're giving so much value. You're giving so much information. Like, You're giving so much information. Like, what does this guy actually want from what does this guy actually want from me? And it brings my guard up. Have you me? And it brings my guard up. Have you guys ever walked in a store and guys ever walked in a store and immediately the salesperson is going up immediately the salesperson is going up to you and asking, "What do you want?" to you and asking, "What do you want?" In that position, what ends up happening

In that position, what ends up happening is you don't feel at ease because you is you don't feel at ease because you can't browse and shop around and you can't browse and shop around and you can't like you don't really want to buy can't like you don't really want to buy anything anymore because you feel the anything anymore because you feel the pressure. And so what you guys are doing pressure. And so what you guys are doing with your content is you're making your with your content is you're making your prospects feel pressured. That's what's prospects feel pressured. That's what's making you fight an uphill battle when making you fight an uphill battle when you're posting content. you're posting content. Content is about lowering your viewers Content is about lowering your viewers guard. And the best way you can do this guard. And the best way you can do this is by postexit positioning. I say this

is by postexit positioning. I say this all the time. If you look at the biggest all the time. If you look at the biggest personal brands, every single one of us personal brands, every single one of us takes this positioning of I don't need takes this positioning of I don't need your money because I've already created your money because I've already created a vehicle that have made me a ton of a vehicle that have made me a ton of money. If you think about a Hermoszi, money. If you think about a Hermoszi, the perception that he creates is that the perception that he creates is that he runs his private equity, a portfolio he runs his private equity, a portfolio of companies that make him tens if not of companies that make him tens if not hundreds of millions of dollars every hundreds of millions of dollars every single year. But what you guys don't see single year. But what you guys don't see is that he also makes so much damn money

is that he also makes so much damn money by selling consulting and workshops. by selling consulting and workshops. There's a reason why he's actively There's a reason why he's actively promoting that. If you look at a guy promoting that. If you look at a guy like let's say William Brown, he's taken like let's say William Brown, he's taken the approach of I've exited my company the approach of I've exited my company that the trading company that that that that the trading company that that that he that he ran up and then now he's he that he ran up and then now he's making more money with his actual B2B making more money with his actual B2B consulting business. So they're taking consulting business. So they're taking the postexit positioning to allow you to the postexit positioning to allow you to lower your guard down so that you feel lower your guard down so that you feel like they have nothing to benefit from

like they have nothing to benefit from you which in turn allows everything to you which in turn allows everything to be so much easier so that you can be so much easier so that you can actually trust them. The first part is actually trust them. The first part is actually understanding this fundamental actually understanding this fundamental concept. Doing this will make sure that concept. Doing this will make sure that you don't fight an uphill battle and you don't fight an uphill battle and just make everything so much easier. just make everything so much easier. Okay. And so how do we build a strong Okay. And so how do we build a strong personal brand that actually drives personal brand that actually drives sales effortlessly? It's through sales effortlessly? It's through YouTube. YouTube. Your focus when you're scaling your

Your focus when you're scaling your business and scaling your brand should business and scaling your brand should be 80% on YouTube and 20% on Instagram. be 80% on YouTube and 20% on Instagram. Okay? And I I see the a huge discrepancy Okay? And I I see the a huge discrepancy between the clients that come from between the clients that come from Instagram, the clients that come from Instagram, the clients that come from YouTube. On Instagram, we get a lot of YouTube. On Instagram, we get a lot of these split pays of people, you know, these split pays of people, you know, paying half up front, whatever the case paying half up front, whatever the case may be. But every time I get an inbound may be. But every time I get an inbound booking from YouTube, it's usually a booking from YouTube, it's usually a $45,000 pay in full. And the reason why $45,000 pay in full. And the reason why is because the sophistication level of

is because the sophistication level of someone that is on YouTube is so much someone that is on YouTube is so much higher compared to Instagram. If higher compared to Instagram. If someone's on Instagram and they find someone's on Instagram and they find your page, the problem is that they're your page, the problem is that they're scrolling and Instagram that Instagram scrolling and Instagram that Instagram algorithm pushes your account. But when algorithm pushes your account. But when it's on YouTube, YouTube displays 20 it's on YouTube, YouTube displays 20 different videos and they intentionally different videos and they intentionally click on your title and your thumbnail. click on your title and your thumbnail. So everything about what they're doing So everything about what they're doing is intentional and it allows you to is intentional and it allows you to spend more time with them as well. My 28

spend more time with them as well. My 28 my 28,000 subscribers contribute to 80% my 28,000 subscribers contribute to 80% of my sales. And if you look at your of my sales. And if you look at your best performing clients, every single best performing clients, every single one of them were pre-sold on you, most one of them were pre-sold on you, most likely because they've consumed some likely because they've consumed some type of long form content. type of long form content. They were pre-sold and bought them They were pre-sold and bought them before they even hopped on a call with before they even hopped on a call with you. And that's the key when you build you. And that's the key when you build your content engine around YouTube. your content engine around YouTube. Everything trickles down because if you Everything trickles down because if you have a competent back-end process, which

have a competent back-end process, which I will go over, everything can be I will go over, everything can be clipped up. And 70% of my Instagram clipped up. And 70% of my Instagram videos are actually completely clipped videos are actually completely clipped up and completely handled by my up and completely handled by my post-production team. Meaning, I don't post-production team. Meaning, I don't script them. I don't film them. These script them. I don't film them. These are existing videos that I've already are existing videos that I've already filmed for YouTube. They're repurposed filmed for YouTube. They're repurposed on Instagram. Instagram gets their on Instagram. Instagram gets their attention and YouTube converts them and attention and YouTube converts them and gets them sold on you. Okay? So, your gets them sold on you. Okay? So, your audience needs to spend the maximum time

audience needs to spend the maximum time with you, which means you need to with you, which means you need to actually provide as much value as you actually provide as much value as you can on YouTube to make sure that these can on YouTube to make sure that these guys are getting as much as they can out guys are getting as much as they can out of you before they actually even touch of you before they actually even touch your pipeline. your pipeline. Number two is finding a unique Number two is finding a unique mechanism. Once you understand the mechanism. Once you understand the postexit positioning, you need to postexit positioning, you need to understand that building a brand comes understand that building a brand comes down to these four stages. The first down to these four stages. The first stage is being admirable. Second stage

stage is being admirable. Second stage is being likable. Third stage is being is being likable. Third stage is being credible. And the fourth stage is being credible. And the fourth stage is being trustable. And here's the part that most trustable. And here's the part that most people get wrong. They try to skip people get wrong. They try to skip straight to being credible. And they straight to being credible. And they post content. They lead with value. They post content. They lead with value. They give information. They tell people why give information. They tell people why what they're doing right now is wrong. what they're doing right now is wrong. And they wonder why it falls flat. It And they wonder why it falls flat. It falls flat because everyone on social falls flat because everyone on social media is posting content telling people media is posting content telling people what to do. And so if everyone is doing

what to do. And so if everyone is doing that, you are positioning yourself as that, you are positioning yourself as every other person on on on Instagram every other person on on on Instagram and YouTube. and YouTube. And so when did you last spend a And so when did you last spend a significant amount of money with someone significant amount of money with someone that you didn't like? Probably never. that you didn't like? Probably never. Probably never. Probably never. Nobody does, right? Trust is built in Nobody does, right? Trust is built in sequences. And too many of you are sequences. And too many of you are trying to skip the trust building trying to skip the trust building process and trying to tell someone what process and trying to tell someone what to do before they even like you or

to do before they even like you or before they even give a about what before they even give a about what you have to say. So stage one is being you have to say. So stage one is being admirable. This is the first stage. If admirable. This is the first stage. If you get low views, this is the first you get low views, this is the first stage that you got to master and that stage that you got to master and that you got to really understand. The first you got to really understand. The first thing you have to realize is that nobody thing you have to realize is that nobody you have to realize that nobody cares you have to realize that nobody cares about you. Literally nobody. about you. Literally nobody. There's 200 million creator accounts on There's 200 million creator accounts on Instagram and 4.5 billion reels shared Instagram and 4.5 billion reels shared daily, every single day. Before doing

daily, every single day. Before doing anything, you have to give your audience anything, you have to give your audience a reason to care about you, right? And a reason to care about you, right? And so I want you guys to ask yourself, this so I want you guys to ask yourself, this is the perfect reflection question. What is the perfect reflection question. What are the three reasons that you can give are the three reasons that you can give your audience to admire you? You just your audience to admire you? You just need to come up with three. But the key need to come up with three. But the key thing here is that when you combine all thing here is that when you combine all three, only you should be able to have three, only you should be able to have that positioning. So for me, mine's the that positioning. So for me, mine's the fact that I make 400k a month at 20. fact that I make 400k a month at 20. That's one very, very strong reason.

That's one very, very strong reason. Another strong reason is that I'm Another strong reason is that I'm balancing this with being a full-time balancing this with being a full-time university student. That's another university student. That's another strong reason. And then the last thing strong reason. And then the last thing is I value my family and is I value my family and non-materialistic items over everything non-materialistic items over everything in the industry where everyone is in the industry where everyone is showing their cars, their watches, and showing their cars, their watches, and everything. All this materialistic everything. All this materialistic stuff. I don't do that. And so when I stuff. I don't do that. And so when I combine these three things here, I don't combine these three things here, I don't know a single other person that has

know a single other person that has these three. Maybe they have one or these three. Maybe they have one or maybe they have two, but they don't have maybe they have two, but they don't have all three. all three. These are your three unique mechanisms These are your three unique mechanisms that your entire brand is built upon. that your entire brand is built upon. And that's what makes you different And that's what makes you different compared to every single person in your compared to every single person in your industry. It's not about the value that industry. It's not about the value that you give. It's not about the you give. It's not about the information. It's not about what you do. information. It's not about what you do. It's about the context that you give It's about the context that you give your audience.

your audience. Every single big personal brand has Every single big personal brand has context that they've given their context that they've given their audience that has allowed them to audience that has allowed them to position themselves completely separate position themselves completely separate from every other person. And if you're from every other person. And if you're not getting views, that means your not getting views, that means your unique mechanisms when tied together are unique mechanisms when tied together are simply not good enough. So you need to simply not good enough. So you need to either do one of do two things. You need either do one of do two things. You need to actually reverse engineer what makes to actually reverse engineer what makes you different or you just need to do you different or you just need to do more cool so that people actually

more cool so that people actually give a give a And so your pro your question is most And so your pro your question is most likely how do I find my unique likely how do I find my unique mechanism? You need to ask yourself what mechanism? You need to ask yourself what makes you different and stand out makes you different and stand out because every single person in this room because every single person in this room is making above 30k a month. is making above 30k a month. You need to ask your clients why they You need to ask your clients why they chose you over the hundreds of other chose you over the hundreds of other competitors that sell the exact same competitors that sell the exact same solution. And what I call this is I want solution. And what I call this is I want you guys to implement the buyer mirror.

you guys to implement the buyer mirror. Every client should fill out a buyer Every client should fill out a buyer mirror form during the entire onboarding mirror form during the entire onboarding process. Now let's go through each process. Now let's go through each question. The first one is where did you question. The first one is where did you first come across me? Whether it was first come across me? Whether it was Instagram, YouTube, referral, podcast, Instagram, YouTube, referral, podcast, what was it? And the second question is, what was it? And the second question is, what was the first piece of content or what was the first piece of content or moment that made you take me seriously? These this is the top ofunnel content that I always go back towards to get my that I always go back towards to get my ICP's attention. Instead of guessing ICP's attention. Instead of guessing what to post or thinking or using

what to post or thinking or using claude, just use your client data. claude, just use your client data. Because if you want more of who you're Because if you want more of who you're already signing, you can just ask them. already signing, you can just ask them. I say this all the time, the best I say this all the time, the best content strategist is not, you know, content strategist is not, you know, what you see that goes viral. It's what you see that goes viral. It's literally by asking your clients because literally by asking your clients because they paid you. You just want more of they paid you. You just want more of them, right? So, the second question them, right? So, the second question gives you the ideas that you can do as gives you the ideas that you can do as top ofunnel content. The third question top ofunnel content. The third question is, what was the last piece of content

is, what was the last piece of content that you watched that push you to book a that you watched that push you to book a call? call? This is your middle ofunnel content. This is your middle ofunnel content. Your middleunnel content is what Your middleunnel content is what actually creates trust with your buyer actually creates trust with your buyer to take that next step forward and book to take that next step forward and book in a call and actually pay you cash. You in a call and actually pay you cash. You need to understand what actually peaks need to understand what actually peaks their attention and what peaks their attention and what peaks their buying process. And when you have their buying process. And when you have these two, top of funnel and middle these two, top of funnel and middle funnel don't become this guessing game.

funnel don't become this guessing game. It becomes extremely intentional. It becomes extremely intentional. There's some other ones like what is the There's some other ones like what is the main reason you decided to reach out main reason you decided to reach out when you did. Right before our call, how when you did. Right before our call, how convinced were you that you sign up? convinced were you that you sign up? What were your biggest hesitations What were your biggest hesitations before joining? There are other coaches before joining? There are other coaches who help with content and branding. Why who help with content and branding. Why did you choose me? Why me? Was it my did you choose me? Why me? Was it my morals? Was it my values? What was it? morals? Was it my values? What was it? You need to figure this out for your own You need to figure this out for your own clients. All right. So, if you're

clients. All right. So, if you're watching this video, you're probably watching this video, you're probably trying to sign clients with content. trying to sign clients with content. [music] And if you're posting content [music] And if you're posting content right now, but it's just not resonating right now, but it's just not resonating with your audience. This is for you. I with your audience. This is for you. I want to give you our exact buyer mirror want to give you our exact buyer mirror form that we get every single one of our form that we get every single one of our clients to fill out when they on [music] clients to fill out when they on [music] board with us. This form tells us board with us. This form tells us directly why they chose us, what makes directly why they chose us, what makes us different, and what we could have us different, and what we could have done better in our content to attract

done better in our content to attract them earlier. This is the exact insight them earlier. This is the exact insight that you need to intentionally apply that you need to intentionally apply into your content so that [music] you into your content so that [music] you can sign more content, scale, and can sign more content, scale, and actually scale your business. We've actually scale your business. We've gotten over a 100 responses and that is gotten over a 100 responses and that is the single reason why the brand is as the single reason why the brand is as [music] intentional as it is today. It's [music] intentional as it is today. It's because we got direct insight from the because we got direct insight from the people that paid us so that we can make people that paid us so that we can make our content better. If you want the our content better. If you want the exact form that we personally use,

exact form that we personally use, [music] go ahead and click the link down [music] go ahead and click the link down below, access it for free. Now, back to below, access it for free. Now, back to the video. Now, once we have that, we the video. Now, once we have that, we understand what makes us admirable. understand what makes us admirable. Now, we got to we got to make ourselves Now, we got to we got to make ourselves likable so that people can actually likable so that people can actually trust us and want to listen to us. trust us and want to listen to us. Again, just because someone makes a lot Again, just because someone makes a lot of money doesn't mean you want to listen of money doesn't mean you want to listen to him. If he makes a lot of money, but to him. If he makes a lot of money, but he shares the same morals and values as he shares the same morals and values as you, now you want to listen to him.

you, now you want to listen to him. Okay? So, if people don't like you on Okay? So, if people don't like you on some level, they won't stay long enough some level, they won't stay long enough to be influenced by anything else you to be influenced by anything else you do. Because every single one of you, you do. Because every single one of you, you may be doing well, you know, 100K, 500K, may be doing well, you know, 100K, 500K, a mill, but there's always going to be a a mill, but there's always going to be a person out there that makes more than person out there that makes more than you. And so if you're only competing you. And so if you're only competing based on being admirable, there's no based on being admirable, there's no point. There's always a bigger shark. point. There's always a bigger shark. Likability doesn't mean being overly Likability doesn't mean being overly positive or charismatic. It just means

positive or charismatic. It just means showing what makes you different. showing what makes you different. And it means your audience view is And it means your audience view is someone they'd actually want to spend someone they'd actually want to spend time with outside of your service. time with outside of your service. So look at the answers that you've So look at the answers that you've implemented from your buyer mirror form implemented from your buyer mirror form that your clients have filled out. These that your clients have filled out. These are some examples that I have for are some examples that I have for myself. So this is one of the questions myself. So this is one of the questions and someone said one of my clients said and someone said one of my clients said some coaches may have one or two things some coaches may have one or two things going for them but not the whole

going for them but not the whole package. You seem like the only one who package. You seem like the only one who checked all the boxes smart ridiculous checked all the boxes smart ridiculous proof your morals and values both as a proof your morals and values both as a person and as a leader in your space. I person and as a leader in your space. I like how you prioritize storytelling, like how you prioritize storytelling, serving and being authentic and mindset serving and being authentic and mindset work. And I appreciate that you work. And I appreciate that you prioritize fulfillment and treating your prioritize fulfillment and treating your people like family. people like family. And there's this other person that said, And there's this other person that said, "The biggest thing I was drawn to was "The biggest thing I was drawn to was the focus of becoming an industry

the focus of becoming an industry leader. You also seem more genuine. You leader. You also seem more genuine. You care about your clients. You're down to care about your clients. You're down to earth. You're not materialistic. I have earth. You're not materialistic. I have no interest in just building a business no interest in just building a business to maximize revenue. I want to help the to maximize revenue. I want to help the people around me." people around me." That's how you go from posting generic That's how you go from posting generic content that only gets a hundred if not content that only gets a hundred if not thousands of views to creating specific thousands of views to creating specific content where you share real experiences content where you share real experiences and when people watch your content, they and when people watch your content, they feel connected to you. They feel

feel connected to you. They feel personal. personal. And so I took this from a viral format And so I took this from a viral format that this guy used and he basically that this guy used and he basically broke down what he spent his money on. broke down what he spent his money on. This his paycheck, right? He got a what This his paycheck, right? He got a what does it say here? $212,000 paycheck. And does it say here? $212,000 paycheck. And he basically showed the lifestyle that he basically showed the lifestyle that he's living, the cars that he has, the he's living, the cars that he has, the apartment rent, um the holidays, like apartment rent, um the holidays, like everything, right? Just living the life, everything, right? Just living the life, like the typical things that we would like the typical things that we would spend on or that we see people spend on.

spend on or that we see people spend on. I took that idea and I had a complete I took that idea and I had a complete spin-off on it. So, I talked about my spin-off on it. So, I talked about my paycheck, but I talked about how little paycheck, but I talked about how little I spent on shopping, how the fact that I I spent on shopping, how the fact that I had no car lease payments, the fact that had no car lease payments, the fact that all my money is going to index funds, my all my money is going to index funds, my investments or back to family or just investments or back to family or just convenience, right? And so I took that convenience, right? And so I took that the comments went from being invest more the comments went from being invest more into your education and you know into your education and you know everyone being a financial adviser in everyone being a financial adviser in his video to people looking at my video

his video to people looking at my video and being like wow that's I've never and being like wow that's I've never seen this before. This is different. I seen this before. This is different. I really appreciate you sharing this really appreciate you sharing this insight. And so I'm attracting the insight. And so I'm attracting the people that aren't too materialistic people that aren't too materialistic about every about life and that actually about every about life and that actually want to invest in their future in a more want to invest in their future in a more sophisticated ICP. But how did I find sophisticated ICP. But how did I find that? Remember the answer that I got that? Remember the answer that I got from the last question from the last question was being authentic and not not being was being authentic and not not being materialistic. So if I showed that more

materialistic. So if I showed that more in my content, do you see how would I in my content, do you see how would I attract that same person? attract that same person? Is everything making sense so far? Is everything making sense so far? &gt;&gt; Okay, perfect. &gt;&gt; Okay, perfect. Now we get to be incredible. This is the Now we get to be incredible. This is the part that you guys are all experts in, part that you guys are all experts in, right? And only once someone's only once right? And only once someone's only once someone likes you and relates to you, someone likes you and relates to you, then they are ready to hear about your then they are ready to hear about your results. Then they are ready to be told results. Then they are ready to be told what to do. And so this is where you can what to do. And so this is where you can share your client results. This is where

share your client results. This is where you can share your personal results. you can share your personal results. This is where you can give value to your This is where you can give value to your clients. But too many of you don't have clients. But too many of you don't have the admiraability stage and likability the admiraability stage and likability stage and are skipping to this and stage and are skipping to this and wonder why it falls flat. Why do we wonder why it falls flat. Why do we listen to the industry leaders in our listen to the industry leaders in our space? is because we have context that space? is because we have context that they've gone through so much that they've gone through so much that we don't want to go through that we feel we don't want to go through that we feel like we can get their lessons without like we can get their lessons without the pain and the struggle that they went

the pain and the struggle that they went through. That's fundamentally what through. That's fundamentally what content is. You have to appeal to your content is. You have to appeal to your audience's selfish desire to watch your audience's selfish desire to watch your content. And so this is you giving content. And so this is you giving value. Now, I want to be very clear when value. Now, I want to be very clear when I say this because I see a lot of people I say this because I see a lot of people posting value and even if they do all posting value and even if they do all three steps right, they may they still three steps right, they may they still may not ever make it work. may not ever make it work. Giving value isn't regurgitated Giving value isn't regurgitated information that can be found on 10 information that can be found on 10 other channels. It's not.

other channels. It's not. This is information that you have that This is information that you have that shows why you're different. And so when shows why you're different. And so when you say some type of value content or you say some type of value content or when you're filming a video, you got to when you're filming a video, you got to ask yourself, am I the only one that can ask yourself, am I the only one that can actually say this out loud? And are actually say this out loud? And are other people that have posted content other people that have posted content already saying the same thing? already saying the same thing? Because cred credibility tells people Because cred credibility tells people that you can get them where they want to that you can get them where they want to go. But if your content is generic and go. But if your content is generic and basic and none of the value is actually

basic and none of the value is actually sticking, it's useless. Everything you sticking, it's useless. Everything you did was useless. Okay? And so the best did was useless. Okay? And so the best quote unquote value videos that I've quote unquote value videos that I've done have performed well always after I done have performed well always after I bought a new program or mentorship. And bought a new program or mentorship. And so my philosophy behind value is I take so my philosophy behind value is I take what's behind pay walls and I'm the what's behind pay walls and I'm the first to put it out in the free content first to put it out in the free content world. Now what does this do? This world. Now what does this do? This forces people to watch my content forces people to watch my content because they can't find it anywhere because they can't find it anywhere else. Think about how I started this

else. Think about how I started this entire presentation. entire presentation. I didn't leverage just my 400k a month I didn't leverage just my 400k a month with complete organic. I leverage people with complete organic. I leverage people that every single one of you know to that every single one of you know to make my point, you know, stronger. And make my point, you know, stronger. And there's not a single person in the there's not a single person in the audience right now that that's on their audience right now that that's on their phone except Jeremy. [laughter] phone except Jeremy. [laughter] [gasps] But you get the idea. Like [gasps] But you get the idea. Like there's not a single person because I'm there's not a single person because I'm able to give so much credibility able to give so much credibility that I'm forcing you to listen. I'm not

that I'm forcing you to listen. I'm not just leveraging my results, but I'm just leveraging my results, but I'm leveraging the people around me. And so leveraging the people around me. And so you feel like you're getting lessons and you feel like you're getting lessons and insights from investing $200,000 by just insights from investing $200,000 by just listening to me. That is the perception. listening to me. That is the perception. It's all about packaging. It it's it It's all about packaging. It it's it rarely is about the value and the rarely is about the value and the expertise that you actually share. It's expertise that you actually share. It's the positioning in which you do it. And the positioning in which you do it. And if I sat here and said that, oh, I just if I sat here and said that, oh, I just post organic content from my clients, post organic content from my clients, but I didn't invest any money. I didn't

but I didn't invest any money. I didn't mention how much I spent. I didn't mention how much I spent. I didn't mention the names that I learned from. mention the names that I learned from. It wouldn't be as interesting. It wouldn't be as interesting. Now, we get to stage four. This is being Now, we get to stage four. This is being trustable. Okay? Trust is built over trustable. Okay? Trust is built over time. It's the accumulation of every time. It's the accumulation of every single piece of content that you made, single piece of content that you made, every promise you've kept, and every every promise you've kept, and every time you showed up and delivered real time you showed up and delivered real value. If your if you don't get inbound value. If your if you don't get inbound leads every single month saying that leads every single month saying that they're ready to pay you in full, that

they're ready to pay you in full, that means that your content is working means that your content is working against you. There is no neutral ground against you. There is no neutral ground in content. When you post content, in content. When you post content, either clients when when prospects watch either clients when when prospects watch that content, they either feel a huge that content, they either feel a huge urge to want to pay you or they move urge to want to pay you or they move away from you because your content is away from you because your content is And the biggest the easiest way to And the biggest the easiest way to test this is seeing that if you get DMs test this is seeing that if you get DMs of people wanting to pay in full, of people wanting to pay in full, the single best way to fast track the single best way to fast track building trust is by showing instead of

building trust is by showing instead of telling. Okay. Now, we basically telling. Okay. Now, we basically pioneered a format where I I I looked at pioneered a format where I I I looked at client interviews and you know, client client interviews and you know, client interviews are the best ways to sign interviews are the best ways to sign clients. This is by far the most clients. This is by far the most important sales asset. But the problem important sales asset. But the problem is that client interviews are selfish. is that client interviews are selfish. it it's all about your service. It's all it it's all about your service. It's all about the client. It's there's nothing about the client. It's there's nothing about the viewer. And so I wanted to about the viewer. And so I wanted to figure out how to actually make a client figure out how to actually make a client interview interesting. And so what I did

interview interesting. And so what I did was I created this format right here. was I created this format right here. This is a video that I did of a client. This is a video that I did of a client. And the packaging of this video looks And the packaging of this video looks like a like a value front facing video like a like a value front facing video that you click on, right? that you click on, right? And so in this video, what all I did was And so in this video, what all I did was instead of sitting down and asking instead of sitting down and asking regular questions like a client regular questions like a client interview that is boring that no no one interview that is boring that no no one really wants to watch, I walked Wyatt really wants to watch, I walked Wyatt walked me through every single decision walked me through every single decision that he made in order to go from 7K a

that he made in order to go from 7K a month to making 312K cash collection in month to making 312K cash collection in 90 days. 90 days. So now he's able to give value while So now he's able to give value while breaking down how we helped him. So when breaking down how we helped him. So when people watch this video, they still get people watch this video, they still get value even if they decide to join or not value even if they decide to join or not to join because why it's breaking down to join because why it's breaking down this process. this process. I did this with Emma as well and we I did this with Emma as well and we broke down her entire decision-m process broke down her entire decision-m process from A to Z on how she went from 30K a from A to Z on how she went from 30K a month to 125K a month in a span of 90

month to 125K a month in a span of 90 days. But you get the idea. The value days. But you get the idea. The value itself is there, but it's all about the itself is there, but it's all about the packaging and the way that the audience packaging and the way that the audience perceives it. If you can make your perceives it. If you can make your bottom ofunnel content appeal to a wider bottom ofunnel content appeal to a wider demographic instead of just people that demographic instead of just people that are interested in your service, that's are interested in your service, that's when special happens. And when I when special happens. And when I posted this video, I've had a just over posted this video, I've had a just over $120,000 directly attributed to this $120,000 directly attributed to this format right here. format right here. This is, in my opinion, the future of

This is, in my opinion, the future of client interviews because client client interviews because client interviews are getting too boring. interviews are getting too boring. They're too outdated. This is the future They're too outdated. This is the future of it. Okay? And I've broken down of it. Okay? And I've broken down everything into an SOP. Um, I was everything into an SOP. Um, I was planning to send it to you guys on planning to send it to you guys on Instagram, but my Instagram is banned. Instagram, but my Instagram is banned. So, I'll just send it on WhatsApp. This So, I'll just send it on WhatsApp. This is a 11-page document SOP on exactly how is a 11-page document SOP on exactly how you guys can implement this because I'm you guys can implement this because I'm assuming that every single one of you assuming that every single one of you has amazing testimonials and amazing

has amazing testimonials and amazing client results and you're doing your client results and you're doing your audience a disservice by not showing audience a disservice by not showing them. So, this is the perfect way to them. So, this is the perfect way to show them instead of telling them that show them instead of telling them that you're good. you're good. And when someone trusts you, they don't And when someone trusts you, they don't need a sales call, right? They DM you need a sales call, right? They DM you and say, "Hey, I have the money. Like, and say, "Hey, I have the money. Like, just send me the link." And we've had a just send me the link." And we've had a lot of people paying into DMs because of lot of people paying into DMs because of this, but it's only because we've built this, but it's only because we've built trust in sequences and we never skipped

trust in sequences and we never skipped any steps. any steps. The goal of our brand is to build trust The goal of our brand is to build trust at scale. And the best advice I can give at scale. And the best advice I can give you guys is treating your brand like an you guys is treating your brand like an actual media company. Okay? actual media company. Okay? Most of you post like a creator. Most of you post like a creator. you're the one person that's doing you're the one person that's doing ideation, scripting, filming, editing, ideation, scripting, filming, editing, posting, and you know, that's not a posting, and you know, that's not a brand. That that's not that's not a brand. That that's not that's not a personal brand. That's not a business. personal brand. That's not a business. It's it's you're the bottleneck. And so

It's it's you're the bottleneck. And so the one who the ones who win treat the one who the ones who win treat content that like they're running a content that like they're running a media company. media company. The creator waits for ideas to come to The creator waits for ideas to come to them, whereas a media company has a them, whereas a media company has a system that produces proven ideas and system that produces proven ideas and generates predictable results. Instead generates predictable results. Instead of asking, "What should I post?" I just of asking, "What should I post?" I just want you guys to start building a want you guys to start building a machine that answers that for you. Okay? machine that answers that for you. Okay? And so everything we do runs on two And so everything we do runs on two pipelines. And I'm going to break both

pipelines. And I'm going to break both down. The first one is the down. The first one is the pre-production, what we do before we pre-production, what we do before we film the video. And the second one is film the video. And the second one is the post-production, what we do after we the post-production, what we do after we film the video. Okay. Stage one, film the video. Okay. Stage one, pre-production. pre-production. We've essentially built out an AI agent We've essentially built out an AI agent that scans everything we've already that scans everything we've already published and pinpoints what's word published and pinpoints what's word before. And what this allows us to do is before. And what this allows us to do is it doubles allows us to double down on it doubles allows us to double down on everything from the hooks, formats, and

everything from the hooks, formats, and angles so we can generate predictable angles so we can generate predictable results. results. The objections you hear on your sales The objections you hear on your sales calls every single day are also content calls every single day are also content gold. An objection that you get on a gold. An objection that you get on a sales call is something that is stopping sales call is something that is stopping hundreds if not thousands of people from hundreds if not thousands of people from working with you. And you discover that working with you. And you discover that on a sales call. So if you're hearing on a sales call. So if you're hearing the same objection over and over again, the same objection over and over again, think about how many people in the think about how many people in the thousands if not tens of thousands have

thousands if not tens of thousands have the same idea, have the same thought the same idea, have the same thought process. And so the goal with content is process. And so the goal with content is we want to single and pinpoint every we want to single and pinpoint every single doubt, obstacle or objection that single doubt, obstacle or objection that is stopping someone from buying. is stopping someone from buying. And so the way I look at content is like And so the way I look at content is like every day that I'm producing middle of every day that I'm producing middle of funnel or bottom of funnel content, I am funnel or bottom of funnel content, I am creating content to solve these creating content to solve these objections so that I never hear them objections so that I never hear them again. That is what I look at. again. That is what I look at. And so we also take direct favor from

And so we also take direct favor from our clients to understand why they our clients to understand why they bought into us so we know what concept bought into us so we know what concept to double down on. And so I need you to to double down on. And so I need you to get in the constant habit of asking your get in the constant habit of asking your clients what do they want to see in your clients what do they want to see in your videos. videos. A lot of people just overkill complicate A lot of people just overkill complicate content for what it is. They think it's content for what it is. They think it's this rocket science. And it's not hard. this rocket science. And it's not hard. You just have to be intentional about You just have to be intentional about everything that you're doing. And so everything that you're doing. And so once we've come up with a content idea,

once we've come up with a content idea, we put it through this system. It gets we put it through this system. It gets scored and validated answering two scored and validated answering two questions. Is the addressable market big questions. Is the addressable market big enough? And can I package this to pull a enough? And can I package this to pull a wide demographic in? wide demographic in? Most creators throw content at a wall Most creators throw content at a wall and hope it sticks. But we're and hope it sticks. But we're intentional from the moment the idea is intentional from the moment the idea is generated up until we press post. Okay? generated up until we press post. Okay? And then once an idea has been approved, And then once an idea has been approved, our editor and our AI agent handles the our editor and our AI agent handles the rest. We do competitor research based on

rest. We do competitor research based on what videos have already performed well what videos have already performed well in the past. They generate a package and in the past. They generate a package and thumbnail. Obviously, the editors thumbnail. Obviously, the editors helping out with this process and then helping out with this process and then we do data collection and script as we do data collection and script as well. Okay. And so all that I need to do well. Okay. And so all that I need to do is film. is film. By the time we film, the idea has been By the time we film, the idea has been sourced. It's scored with our internal sourced. It's scored with our internal algorithm. It's reviewed by AI. It's algorithm. It's reviewed by AI. It's researched. It's packaged in the way researched. It's packaged in the way that I want it. And so I know all of

that I want it. And so I know all of this so that when I'm speaking in my this so that when I'm speaking in my content, I know exactly how I'm going to content, I know exactly how I'm going to do it. I know the title and the do it. I know the title and the thumbnail of this video as I'm thumbnail of this video as I'm presenting this video, presenting right presenting this video, presenting right now before I even stepped up on stage. now before I even stepped up on stage. That's the level of intentionality that That's the level of intentionality that you have to have. And so, we're not you have to have. And so, we're not gambling on camera. We're simply gambling on camera. We're simply executing a proven concept backed by executing a proven concept backed by data. data. This is the last part that I want to go

This is the last part that I want to go through, okay? Post-production. And then through, okay? Post-production. And then I'll we'll get to a Q&amp;A. I'll we'll get to a Q&amp;A. We've invested over like $50,000 into We've invested over like $50,000 into optimizing our content systems for optimizing our content systems for scale. And this is the exact system that scale. And this is the exact system that allows us to convert one, you know, over allows us to convert one, you know, over 50 hours of footage into 60 short forms 50 hours of footage into 60 short forms and six long form videos every single and six long form videos every single month. It starts with how you structure month. It starts with how you structure your team. And so if you just have an your team. And so if you just have an editor and you're telling him to clip up editor and you're telling him to clip up your your videos with no intention, with

your your videos with no intention, with no SOPs, with no training, no SOPs, with no training, that's that's the reason why you're that's that's the reason why you're stuck, right? And so we used to face stuck, right? And so we used to face this exact bottleneck. And that's why this exact bottleneck. And that's why we've designed the team built for scale. we've designed the team built for scale. This is what my team looks like. I have This is what my team looks like. I have a CMO who's my head of content and he a CMO who's my head of content and he manages this entire system. I have a manages this entire system. I have a head editor in long form that is leading head editor in long form that is leading the long form charge. He's he's making the long form charge. He's he's making sure that everyone is executing what he sure that everyone is executing what he needs to do. I have a thumbnail designer

needs to do. I have a thumbnail designer under that where his entire goal is to under that where his entire goal is to just do thumbnails and research what's just do thumbnails and research what's working and be creative. And then I have working and be creative. And then I have a junior editor that manages the second a junior editor that manages the second account and make sure that everything is account and make sure that everything is clipped up. Now the key thing is that my clipped up. Now the key thing is that my head editor actually has leverage. He is head editor actually has leverage. He is not clipping these videos from scratch. not clipping these videos from scratch. The junior editor is actually clipping The junior editor is actually clipping up the boring parts of a video, the up the boring parts of a video, the parts that you know are not going to parts that you know are not going to make the final cut. And then the head

make the final cut. And then the head editor is adding the animations, adding editor is adding the animations, adding the entire, you know, the making the the entire, you know, the making the packaging look amazing. And then on the packaging look amazing. And then on the shortfront side is the same thing. I shortfront side is the same thing. I have a head editor that makes that holds have a head editor that makes that holds everyone under him accountable. And I everyone under him accountable. And I have one dedicated clipper that goes have one dedicated clipper that goes through all of my content, my hours and through all of my content, my hours and footage, my hours of footage, and finds footage, my hours of footage, and finds the best value that I give the best value that I give so that we can clip it up. And then my so that we can clip it up. And then my junior editor edits the first revisions,

junior editor edits the first revisions, sends it back to the head editor. And sends it back to the head editor. And it's this entire process and this entire it's this entire process and this entire flywheel. We've removed the guesswork flywheel. We've removed the guesswork from our entire post-p production from our entire post-p production process because of the people I have in process because of the people I have in place. The moment a video is uploaded, place. The moment a video is uploaded, clipped, and assigned, the editing team clipped, and assigned, the editing team knows exactly how to execute. If you're knows exactly how to execute. If you're wondering why you're not consistent, wondering why you're not consistent, there's one of two things. Either you there's one of two things. Either you have no SOPs or no training, or you're have no SOPs or no training, or you're not spending enough money. How

not spending enough money. How many of you sign clients with ads? Just many of you sign clients with ads? Just a raise of hands. Every single one of a raise of hands. Every single one of you, how much do you guys spend on ads? you, how much do you guys spend on ads? Just shout it out real quick. Per month. Just shout it out real quick. Per month. 10K. How How much did you say? Okay. 10K. How How much did you say? Okay. 70k. Anyone else? 10K. 70k. Anyone else? 10K. I spend 15K a month on my content team I spend 15K a month on my content team and I generated a 24x return on and I generated a 24x return on investment every single month. If you investment every single month. If you look at organic content the same way you look at organic content the same way you guys look at ads, you're going to take guys look at ads, you're going to take it seriously. And so I was a business

it seriously. And so I was a business owner that hated this You know, I owner that hated this You know, I didn't want to do it. It was didn't want to do it. It was unpredictable. But when I forced myself unpredictable. But when I forced myself to actually spend money, that's when I to actually spend money, that's when I got intentional about it. When I hired a got intentional about it. When I hired a competent person, that's when I got competent person, that's when I got intentional. intentional. And so the same way that you give a And so the same way that you give a about your rorowaz on ads because you're about your rorowaz on ads because you're spending, you have to do the same thing spending, you have to do the same thing for organic. If not, it's not going to for organic. If not, it's not going to work. You have to spend an uncomfortable

work. You have to spend an uncomfortable amount of money so that you actually amount of money so that you actually give a because this is the mo this give a because this is the mo this is the biggest long-term competitive is the biggest long-term competitive advantage that you could ever create. advantage that you could ever create. People can copy your ads. People can People can copy your ads. People can copy your sales process. They can copy copy your sales process. They can copy your fulfillment, but they can't copy your fulfillment, but they can't copy your brand because that's built over your brand because that's built over years of work. years of work. So every format that we've done follows So every format that we've done follows a documented SOP based on proven winners a documented SOP based on proven winners that my head of content creates. If

that my head of content creates. If we're doing some type of live we're doing some type of live transformation, we have an entire SOP transformation, we have an entire SOP that that we give the editor so that that that we give the editor so that editors are not editing editors are not editing based on competence or based on what based on competence or based on what they think. They're editing based on they think. They're editing based on what we want. what we want. Every single format that I've posted, Every single format that I've posted, there's an specific editing criteria there's an specific editing criteria that I've engineered for that so that that I've engineered for that so that none of it is up to luck. We collect data on viewer spikes in our long form content to find the best clips

long form content to find the best clips with the most viral potential to be with the most viral potential to be converted into short form. If you post converted into short form. If you post on YouTube, you can actually see the on YouTube, you can actually see the retention graph. And if you see right retention graph. And if you see right here, this is a perfect spike. We posted here, this is a perfect spike. We posted this and it got 60,000 views. And so this and it got 60,000 views. And so it's intention behind the clipping it's intention behind the clipping process from the YouTube videos to make process from the YouTube videos to make this process entire super super easy. this process entire super super easy. Not only that, but the full transcript Not only that, but the full transcript of our long form content goes in the of our long form content goes in the cloud and it's running our clipping SOP.

cloud and it's running our clipping SOP. We basically select the clips that used We basically select the clips that used to take hours and now that happens at to take hours and now that happens at scale in a span of minutes. Okay, scale in a span of minutes. Okay, the most important part of the the most important part of the production process actually happens production process actually happens after the video is posted. And so every after the video is posted. And so every week we review what performed and feed week we review what performed and feed the outliers back into Claude, which the outliers back into Claude, which becomes an ideation machine. And when becomes an ideation machine. And when you tie claude with the buyer mirror you tie claude with the buyer mirror that you're getting and the feedback that you're getting and the feedback that you're getting from your clients,

that you're getting from your clients, can you see how content is predictable can you see how content is predictable now? It's easy. And so every winner now? It's easy. And so every winner becomes an input for the next round of becomes an input for the next round of ideas. And it's this entire loop when ideas. And it's this entire loop when you get content that actually performs you get content that actually performs well. The winners feed the ideation well. The winners feed the ideation process. The ideation feeds the process. The ideation feeds the production. The production feeds the production. The production feeds the performance. And then the performance performance. And then the performance feeds the ideation again. And it's this feeds the ideation again. And it's this entire loop. And so when you post a entire loop. And so when you post a piece of content, you need to be hyper

piece of content, you need to be hyper analyzing the entire process that goes analyzing the entire process that goes behind it because too many of you treat behind it because too many of you treat content as if it's just something on content as if it's just something on your to-do list that you just got to get your to-do list that you just got to get done. Every single one of you knows that done. Every single one of you knows that content is important. But because of content is important. But because of your lack of intentionality with the way your lack of intentionality with the way you set up the systems, that's why you set up the systems, that's why you're stuck. But if you have these you're stuck. But if you have these systems that scale, that's what's going systems that scale, that's what's going to get you out of the process of trying to get you out of the process of trying content, not not seeing it perform, and

content, not not seeing it perform, and then going back to ads and then starting then going back to ads and then starting from zero again. Okay. The creators who from zero again. Okay. The creators who burn out are doing everything burn out are doing everything themselves, and the brands that compound themselves, and the brands that compound are the ones who build the systems to are the ones who build the systems to operate at scale. operate at scale. Perfect. Perfect. &gt;&gt; [applause]
