he will give you the same expert advice he would give you in a
$250/hour consultation. He'll let you in on how to prepare and present
your information so the attorney will realize right away they should
charge you as little as reasonably possible.
Lawyers don't work for free (most of the time), and they can get
expensive, fast. But what's important to you is: The same service can cost
hundreds or thousands of dollars more—if you don't know (and use) the
secrets Donnie reveals in this session.
This Unexpected Benefit Story works because common sense tells people
that they can't solve all their problems in life without a lawyer. Even
though many people suspect most of life's problems can be solved that
way.
What this story does is validate that belief. Plus, it deftly gives in to the
reality that there are a few situations where hiring a lawyer is absolutely
necessary-and then delivers the great news that there is a "lawyer-
certified" way to minimize the cost.
Notice how this story is a great example of showing a future unexpected
benefit to your prospect. If you were leaning toward getting this
(hypothetical) course, there would always be that nagging question in
your mind: "Well, what about when I absolutely have to get a lawyer?"
Not only does the story make that doubt go away. It also turns hiring a
lawyer into a money-saving event. Two problems solved at the same
time.
How To Create An Unexpected Benefit Story
When you set out to persuade someone, whether it's in writing, in a
video, or in a personal conversation, you first typically make a list of the
features and the benefits of what you are suggesting or selling.
Features, of course, are essentially facts: What the product is. Benefits, by
comparison, are performances: What the product does.
After you've got your two lists, you can create an Unexpected Benefit
Story. First, step back, mentally. Ask yourself: What is the overall
promise of what I'm selling? What's the main idea?
(In the example above, the main idea is: Solve problems without hiring a