In 1999, these two obsessions (copywriting and screenwriting) converged
in a fateful way. I was taking a screenwriting class in Marin County.
Every now and then, our instructor would explain an advanced movie
technique and I would raise my hand and say, "From the tawdry world
of copywriting, that reminds me of... "
I would get a laugh, and proceed to explain how a similar technique
worked in the persuasive language of direct-response advertising copy.
One day after class, two students came up to me and said,
"David, what is this thing called 'copywriting?' Would you teach it to
us?"
Teaching was a new idea to me. I had been writing copy for eight years,
and I'd scored some big wins. But I'd never taught copywriting to
anyone, or even thought of doing so.
One thing that had bothered me as a new copywriter was the mystery of
the whole thing. There were successful copywriters who taught the best
they could, but after reading their books and taking their seminars, I
would have more questions than answers. Enough answers, to be sure, to
write copy that worked. But not nearly enough to understand how it
worked to my satisfaction.
In short, I had not found a clear, simple, A-to-Z copywriting course after
many years of searching. So I would have nothing to use as a model to
create my own course.
I knew that if I told the two students, Sue and Jane, that I would teach a
class, I would feel an obligation to do something that I was not sure
could be done. Namely, teach the language of persuasion in a systematic,
comprehensive, and—most important of all—easy-to-understand way.
But I'd always been up for a challenge and willing to take a risk. I saw a
big opportunity here. So I told Jane and Sue I'd do it if they wouldn't
mind having a professional audio engineer in the room, to record the
whole seminar. That way, I could create a product and share this with
more people.
Jane and Sue said fine, and I set about creating the course. I took
everything I had learned, organized it and simplified it. I sweated the
details. And I made supreme efforts to fill in the gaps when I needed to
come up with something new to make it all make sense. It was a massive