of pressure a person in this situation is feeling from other people, and the
way those other people apply that pressure. Again, you find this out
from talking to people or from research.
Simply combining the way those forms of pressure into a single story
makes you much more believable. You can use a story like this both to
lead into the presentation of an offer, and as an engaging way to answer
objections-since very often, "What will
say to me about this?" is
an unspoken objection.
SOME TIPS
Where do you use these "getting familiar" stories? There's no single
place in your persuasion messaging—whether it's in a presentation, a
pitch or a written sales message—that you must always, or can only, use
them. A better way to look at the question of where to use them is:
Wherever it would help your prospect realize and possibly even
experience why they need what you are trying to persuade them to buy
or do.
People are motivated by emotion, not logic. And if there's one thing you
can always count on these "getting familiar" stories to do is create
emotion in your prospect. That's because they remind the prospect of
facts and events in their own lives that created emotion for them—or,
particularly with stories about the world today, they put in sharp focus
feelings your prospect is currently having.
With that in mind, it might be useful to use one of these stories near the
start of your message or presentation. There will be times when you'll
want to use one of these stories right before you introduce your solution
or offer. And at the end of your presentation, before your call to action, it
might be persuasive to remind your prospect one final time of the pain
they will continue to experience if they don't do something about it.
Notice these stories are concise-concentrated. They don't drone on and
on. They're not stuffed with flowery adjectives and emotional language.
Instead, they cut to the chase to make their point with facts and
sequences of events. So it's a good idea to rewrite stories like this until
they are compact and as bare-bones-free of hype and flourishes—as
possible. Sometimes, shorter really is better.