Here's why it's intriguing. $350 may not sound like much. But in today's
dollars, her payment for the story would total about $5800.00!
Early on in the ad, the secretary reveals her dreams to her father, and
tells how she was rebuffed:
I began to picture my story printed for thousands of people to read. It
sent an inexpressible thrill through me, and, looking up suddenly, I said
to Dad, "Do you know, I think I can write stories."
He replied, "You! Why, my dear, you have to be born to be a writer."
Even though she doesn't think of herself as born to be a writer, she
doesn't give up on the dream. The story continues,
One day I came across an interesting article about Prof. Walter B. Pitkin. I
found out that many of the big writers in this country had actually
studied his method...
The articles filled me with new hope. It told about all the wonderful
success young writers had made, not only in the short-story field, but as
novelists, playwrights, editors and writers. If these people could learn to
write, I could, too, I told myself firmly. Dad was wrong. Writers were
made, as well as born.
Of course, I could not give up my position and go to Columbia
University where Prof. Pitkin teaches Journalism-but I could study his
wonderful methods at home in my spare time. I sent for his course "How
to Write Stories" and it proved the most important step I ever made.
Prof. Pitkin's course revealed to me the secret of creating interest.
It taught me how to give my story that subtle touch that appeals
to the editor. Best of all, it taught me how to find ideas for stories
in the most trivial happenings.
And so I studied Prof. Pitkin's course in my spare time, and while
I studied it I wrote a story based on one of its plot suggestions. I
sent it to one of the biggest magazines in the country, confident
that the technique was faultless, and that I had woven setting, plot
and characters into an absorbing narrative.
With the passing of a few days I received a substantial check—a
check that meant the beginning of a new life for me, a foothold on