can be really sharp dressers.
And it's easy to see why people accept the idea that the only kind of story
that works is a hero's journey story. Americans spend an average of 2
hours 33 minutes a day watching IV. All the movies and fictional series
use some variation of the hero's journey to tell their stories.
We see these shows and movies over and over again. So it's
understandable that someone would come to the conclusion that when it
comes to telling a story in any situation, it's got to be a hero's journey.
Only one problem: Hero's journey stories are not how we talk (most of
the time, anyway) in real lifeespecially in business situations.
Our everyday language is more casual, and straightforward.
If a client tells you about how they were mistreated, you might respond,
"That's terrible, and you have every right to be upset. I'd feel the same
way. No one should be treated like that." (That's actually a $tory that
builds trust by showing empathy. See more in Chapter 5.)
If a prospect tells you about how they're having trouble getting their
automated lawn-watering system to turn on and shut down on time, you
might say, "Just the other day, a customer named Gladys told me about
this great app for her phone that synchs up with the lawn-watering
timer. Just a couple clicks and she got it working the way she wanted.
and you can fix it right on your phone, no matter where you are.
Plus, it sends you alerts when the watering doesn't start or end on time,
(Another $tory. This time, about how other people have made something
work. See more in Chapter 7.)
If your boss is hesitant to approve the purchase of a new printer, you
might say, "I understand it seems expensive. But they use a new toner-
saving technology that cuts costs by 20%. So compared to the standard
model, based on how much printing we do, it will pay for itself in 3
months. And after that, the savings are all gravy." (Also a $tory, this time
about the unexpected benefit of making a particular decision. See more in
Chapter 6.)
As for hero's journey stories, well, they're tremendously entertaining.
Again, occasionally, a simplified hero's journey story can work for
persuasion. But most of the time, a persuasion story is a much better fit.
Why? Because normally, people are used to reading and watching hero's