Now, here comes a word of caution-about mentioning results. This
applies to all types of published advertising. Regulations were far fewer
in 1921 than they are today. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission had
been established in 1914. The law creating it stated that "false advertising
is a form of unfair and deceptive commerce."
Yes, that was the law on the books way back when. But in practice, at
that time advertisers were able to make much bolder claims without
documented proof, than they are today.
So if you are using a story like this, which highlights results, on the
internet or in printed advertising, you probably should get a review from
a lawyer who really knows what's what with regulations and the law.
To be sure, the claim that someone became a successful writer because
of your product is a lot less risky than a specific financial or health claim
about the results from using a product. Just know that regulators are
watching, and you don't want to give them a reason to watch you. And
it's good, common sense to back up any claims you make with
documentation-and, in the case of any form of advertising, advise your
prospect that not everyone gets the same results.
When And How To Use This Kind Of Story
It's tempting to use a story that shows how to use a product right at the
start of your presentation or advertising, but that's usually a mistake.
You first need to engage your prospect's interest, establish rapport, and
introduce the idea that you have a product that can solve the prospect's
problem—all before you tell your prospect how to use what you're
offering.
Remember, you already know that your prospect needs what you have
and that their life will be better once they have it. But often, they don't.
So you have to warm them up first, and lead them to a place where they
accept that they might want something like what you have.
A few questions to ask to help you get started putting a story like this
together:
1. What problems, doubts, fears or desires might be on the mind of your
prospect—in regard to the results your product or service provides?