2. How can you acknowledge those feelings so as to open the mind of
the prospect to being walked through how to use your product?
3. What are some of the most exciting actions the prospect will take
when using the product, and how can you include them in a description?
STORIES THAT DESCRIBE A PRODUCT'S MECHANISM
In his landmark 1966 book Breakthrough Advertising, copywriter Gene
Schwartz introduced the idea of mechanism as a persuasion tool. In short,
in this context, a mechanism is a compelling description of how a
product works. Usually this means a unique process or combination of
features, which sets the product apart from its competition.
When a story describes a mechanism effectively, it's not all mechanical
and matter-of-fact. A good mechanism description includes exciting
benefits that show and explain why the product is unique, and better
than its competitors.
Stories That Describe A Product's Mechanism almost never go deep into
technical details. They provide just enough specific, tangible information
to persuade a prospect that there really is something better-and more
appealing-about a product.
An easy way to understand this is to think about "normal" (one-gear)
bikes and compare them to 10-speed bikes. The set of 10 gears, and the
system for shifting from one gear to another, is the mechanism. The
benefit of this mechanism is that you get the ability to change the
pedaling resistance of the bike, depending on the gear selected-and in
that way, make it easier to get where you're going.
If you're going to tell a story about the 10-speed bike, you won't go into
gear ratios and pedal-to-bike-chain mechanics. You'll simply explain
how you use a certain gear while climbing a hill... another gear on a flat
road... and what's the advantage of having that flexibility.
Now, not every product or service has a mechanism worth highlighting
in a persuasive story. But it's worth analyzing and thinking about what
you're selling to see if yours does.
Because if you do have a unique mechanism and you can tell a clear,