accounts of 200 real-life negotiations. And one of the movie's stars, actor
Samuel L. Jackson, joined the Los Angeles Police Department golf
tournament before filming began. On the golf course, Jackson
interviewed a former FBI hostage negotiator for a few hours.
The movie was filmed in Chicago. Jackson's co-star Kevin Spacey
reached out to experienced local police hostage negotiators to find out
about the emotional terrain of hostage negotiations. And the film's
production company hired a business that was staffed with ex-cops, to
ask questions as they came up about how actual negotiations tend to
unfold. Plus, to get actual diagrams, plans and instruction manuals for
how hostage phones and other devices worked.
Now that's a lot of research!
Why did they do it? To get every behavioral and technical detail for
making the story as realistic-and thus, as believable—as possible.
Because stories need to be believed to be accepted.
In the last chapter, we took a good, believable persuasion story and
found four ways to ruin its believability: inconsistency, vagueness,
exaggeration, and awkward, non-conversational language.
But how do you get a story to be believable in the first place?
Well, to take a page out of preparation for "The Negotiator"-research.
Don't simply use your imagination to make something up that might or
might not bear any resemblance to reality. Find out, through research.
Three kinds of research that really help with believability:
• Factual research. This is what most people think about when you
say research. Of course this includes researching the product or
the service you intend to sell. Learn the features and the benefits.
But factual research also encompasses learning how people use
the product, or benefit from the service, in their everyday lives.
Seeking out that information can lead to some very good
persuasion stories.
• Emotional research. If the product or service you're selling solves
a problem, find out how people feel about that problem. Online,
you can look at Reddit and other forums. It turns out people
aren't shy about complaining-and complaints offer valuable