All right. So, in this video, I want to talk about how anyone or how you potentially could make $10,000 a month on Upwork as a creative strategist. Okay? I'm going to make it as brain dead simple as possible. I'm not saying that this is going to be easy by any means. It's it's quite difficult to make that kind of money on Upwork. Um, but it is possible. It's doable and uh it's something that I've shown and helped other people do uh multiple multiple times. So, I feel very very confident in that. And if you literally just follow the steps on here to a tea, it will work. I give these steps out all the time. Everyone who just follows what I say gets it to work. People who don't and they try to take a shortcut, they're always messaging me like, "Oh, what you said didn't work." Until I like push them and like, "Hey, did you follow the steps?" They do the steps and they get the results. Okay, so first, you know, one question is why Upwork? Because uh typically, you know, if you're a brand new beginner, some people are like, "I don't want to do Upwork. I don't want to buy Connects. I don't want to do that." If you're worried about connects, this is not the video for you. Okay. Uh, I I respect and appreciate it, but it's not the video for you. Um, the other flip side is that you get a lot of people who are a little bit more advanced or intermediate and they just have this stigma that they think Upwork you can only get low-level clients, which is partially true, but not entirely true at all. um especially and so they're more advanced and they're like I don't want to go back to Upwork and their ego is in the way which is fine. And I understand that. But you can have an ego. Um, but if you are someone who's like, I don't have as many clients as I want right now, and you don't have an Upwork, and you're just doing that out of ego, that doesn't make sense to me, right? Like, if I were in a position where I wanted to get more clients, um, and I had tapped out some of the other stuff or whatever, like actually, if I was just in any position where I needed more clients than what I have right now, I would a thousand% be on Upwork. I'm not on Upwork right now because I haven't needed it, right? I'm cl I've had enough clients that whenever I want to do client work, I have more than I can possibly work with and I'm blessed and and I have that benefit, right? But if I were in a position where I didn't have that, I would a thousand% be on Upwork no matter what stage that I'm in even right now. And in fact, it's kind of a cheat code. If you're really really good on Upwork, you get pretty much all the clients. That's that's how this this thing works. Okay, so again, why Upwork? This is the easiest way to get started. You get thirdparty proof. So, when you're first starting out, one of the best things you can do is you're just building a portfolio on a thirdparty platform you can show to anyone else and it just shows that you're legit. Okay? And you get reps. This is probably one of the most important one. There's so many people who want to be a creative strategist or copyriter or want to get started and they're like, I don't I don't know. I got to do a portfolio. I got to do this. It's like, no, what you need is you need reps. Massive, unbelievable amount of reps for anything you want to do in life. You just need an insane amount of reps. So, you need to bias yourself to just taking the action. That's the most important thing that you can do. When the day I decided I want to be a copyriter, I was like, you know what? I'm gonna do it. And I just put myself on Upwork and I'll just figure it out from there. Those are the people who win, right? Because you're just taking action and you're getting reps. You're going to hit bumps along the way. You're going to [ __ ] up along the way. It's okay. It's not the end of the world. That's the only way that you're going to learn. So, it's so important. It's like if you want to learn a skill, as soon and as fast as you can start getting reps instead of just learning theory, the faster you're going to be able to grow. And if you just get that bias for yourself for any area of your life, you'll always have way more success. Um, okay. So, here's some quick proof of just people who I've helped. Uh, here's uh Mr. Steve, who basically says, uh, let's see. I've had an Upwork account for over a decade. It was called Elance when I created the account. Well, I hired a bunch of people on it. I never tried to get work as a freelancer. To be honest, pay attention to this. I thought it was below me. Uh, that and I thought it'd be too much effort to break through and get my first couple clients on the platform. I resisted doing the Upwork parts of the protocol from the freelancer client avalanche training for a whole month. That's one of our workshop trainings that we did where we went in-depth on all 12 different ways to get clients. When I saw others in Genesis winning solid projects and platforms on brand new profiles, I swallowed my pride and got to work. Within two weeks of seriously pursuing work on Upwork, including getting my profile revealed by the real life versions of Mario and Luke in addition to the bot versions, I secured a deal with a company that serves enterprise level clients that is likely to worth8 to $11,000 per month in revenue to my business. And so far, I've used the Oracle bot in addition for all the deliverables, etc., etc., etc. Okay, that's $8 to $11,000 per month. Uh, here's match. The past four months, I was making anywhere from 5 to 7.5,000. I made 7.5,000 the last two months. This month, I closed two new clients and double my income. Uh, I believe these are through Upwork. Um, double my income. Yeah, through Upwork. 15K a month, making this my first 5 figure month on the books. Genesis has changed my life. And here's Cosman, who we'll talk about more. I don't get paid for this new gig yet, so I'm not sure how it's going to go, but this month I'm already at 11K. And it didn't add uh that's on September 22nd. It didn't add the 2 and a half,000 for the new gig since it's in my bank account. And another 2,000 from another agency. So looking like a $15,000 month, right? He's done he's done $20,000 and more, etc. And a lot of his stuff is from Upwork. Okay. Um and then here real quick, we'll look at this in a second. Uh but this is uh something that Cosman wrote about the newbie copyriters guide to crushing on Upwork. Upwork is for losers. because that's what my initial experience and what dozens of gurus and experts in my space led me to believe, but I was completely wrong and I have Luke Mills to thank for dropkicking some sense into me. Um, back in May, I got selected onto one of his calls. Luke says Upwork is the best place to start for you. The eye roll I had to fight back was hard because all I could think was, boy, what a complete waste of time this is going to be. But here's the thing, I just spent the last four months being a copy slave in an agency. My back hurt, my brain hurt, my eyes hurt. So, I decided to shut up and trust the process. And that changed everything. In just a few months of following Luke's Upwork pro approach, uh, my income tripled. I was turning down work left and right. Two and three business owners were sliding my messages every week, all while doing less hours. This was all from Upwork. Okay? Started at zero. No clients, no experience, no reviews on Upwork to hitting top rated status, uh, leveling up to top rated plus. And, uh, he basically followed all the strategies I'm literally going to give you on this video. Okay? So, that's not to hype you up or to even tell you to join Genesis, although, you know, I think Genesis is a great place and you could join and buy our products. think we make great stuff. But that's not what I'm telling you this is for. Uh the reason I'm telling you all this is so that you trust that this is possible and doable because these are all the objections I see over and over and over again. People think it's beneath them. People think it's only low-level clients think you can't make money on that. And if you really believe that and you're still watching this video, which many people I don't know, I don't know why you'd be watching this video, but I just know I've worked with so many people one-on-one on this topic. I get passionate about it because I literally just tell them the information and then they just don't [ __ ] do anything with it. Uh, and it's always because of these same objections over and over and over again. So, I just want to bombard your mind with proof to get that out of your head and just trust this process. Okay? I don't even think most people watching this video will, right? If this video gets 1,000 views, maybe 10 people on here will actually follow this, right? Maybe. Okay? And I hope those 10 people follow this process, make money, and then let me know that they made money, okay? And I'll take you to the next level from there. That's really what this is for, okay? Maybe I can get it from eight people to 10 people. That's why I'm ranting. Anyways, for everyone else who wants to follow along, let's go through it. Here's the seven simple steps to make $10,000 a month on Upwork. It is so dumb simple. Number one, fill out profile to 100% absolute completion. This is not a typo. This is not minced words. I didn't just put this together. This is doable. If you do not do this process, skip everything else. 100% absolute completion. It blows my mind how many times I tell people to fill out their profile to 100% completion and they don't do it. They make all kinds of weird excuses. I don't care. anything that you could put on your Upwork profile, education, mentorships, portfolio, uh your profile thing, a video, whatever it is, do it all. The reason why is because you're creating this this this glow in your profile that feels full and it feels uh like you have a lot of things that are in there. Okay? So, you're filling it up completely. You're using every asset and resources on on this profile. Okay? There's so many times I I talk to people and there I'm like, "Hey, you you were a dental student, right? or you were like an engineer, why is that not on your profile? Okay? Or why did you not put a video on your profile or whatever? And they'll give me all the weird excuses like, "Oh, I'm shy on camera." It's like, I don't care if you have six eyes poking out of your forehead. Make a video to introduce yourself so people see you're a real person. It makes a difference. I don't I don't have any uh clients. Go into AI, write some fake, not fake, but write some portfolio emails and samples and put it on there. You can update this stuff later, but fill out everything. Here are two examples. This is Cosmin and this is uh another individual here. So you can see what their what uh what their stuff looks like. Okay. So we have the hours, we have the different profiles that are here. Uh actually hold on. Okay. I forgot I had to log in. So uh we have the video here. We have education. We have job history. We have portfolio. Right? I I like to recommend multiple pages to the portfolio just to make it look full. Lots of skills. Uh project catalog. Again, just make some sort of offer on there. Certification. So, he did my copy block certification, which is awesome. You can get that below. It's 27 bucks. Maybe it's an upsell or something. You get certified on that. Um I actually put a lot of time into that certification. So, you it's kind of hard to get the test right, but um it's good. Employment history. Put everything on there. I I told him put this Genesis copyrightiting cohort, which is where he was in, right? Put everything you can. his doctor of dental medicine. If someone is like, "Oh, this guy's a doctor." Like, "All right, this guy's got to be smart somewhat to do it." So, that's his profile. This is Cosmy's profile. Uh, book a consultation. Lots of these languages on here. Portfolio, testimonials, right? So, Shaq is missing these. I got to yell at him. Uh, employment history, other experiences. Cool. I told him to put his copy cohort on there, right? So, it doesn't take that much work, but just do it one time and it's done, okay? And just fill it out and don't skip that step. Number two is bootstrap your profile with three reviews. This is one of those things that like I've just not found a way around it. If you are a brand new cold start um Upwork profile, it's really hard to win and compete jobs. I found that the first thing you need to do is just get any sort of three reviews for that are like five star uh reviews. Okay? And I don't care what the amount is for. So, let's go and look at like his first one is $5. Okay. My guess is that uh what I told him to do was to go so so what you need to do is you need to bootstrap your profile. What do I mean by this? What I mean is you find someone, friends, family, someone in your warm network or an existing client, anyone, it doesn't matter. And you say, "Hey, let me write some copy for you. Make an Upwork account. hire me on Upwork and I'll write some copy for you. Okay? And then just tell them, I'll reimburse you the amount, right? So, $5 or something like that. Again, look at the details. I don't know if this violates Upwork's terms of service or whatever. Maybe it does, but just be smart about it. Use common sense, okay? At the end of the day, everyone's still getting paid. It's ethical. Like, you're writing them something they need to if it's maybe it's a birthday note, right? Just say this is direct response copy to make somebody feel something, right? It could be a birthday letter. Write something for somebody. get make get the payment. Uh everyone is getting paid. You lose a little bit of money on the transaction, but again, you're just seeding your account with these uh initial uh reviews. Three is what I recommend to do. If you can go and win an win an actual job, amazing. I recommend that you go and do that, but people get stuck on this. Um and I've typically found that the best thing you got to do is you got to bootstrap your account. Okay? So, just use common sense with it and done. It doesn't need to be for a lot of money. $5. Um right, like I think Shaq did. Maybe maybe this was this was the bootstrap one and then he just got started getting all these other kind of jobs here. Easy, right? Uh Cosmin I don't think the history goes back that far, but that's what I recommend that you do. Okay, next thing is apply five to 10 times per day. Now, you know, some people maybe do like three to five times per day or something like that, but I want to dispel this notion and be like apply five to 10 times per day. with AI and with everything I'm about to give you, it is not that hard to apply to five to 10 times per day. People are like, "Oh, like they'll tell me, oh, there's not enough jobs on there." And I'm like, "That's just bullshit." I mean, one, I looked at creative strategist jobs uh the other day, and it was like all of these were jobs that were posted within 24 hours. And it was like 20, right? Yeah, it was a whole page. It was It was 20. They're not all listed here, but it was 20 that were posted. uh maybe 19 that were posted within 24 hours and that's just creative strategist that's not copywriter marketer email copywriter whatever. Okay, apply to everything. I don't care if it's a job that's outside your your pay, right? Or they're like, "Oh, I need you to be blank blank blank blank blank." One of the jobs that I got on Upwork that ended up paying me on retainer and probably ended me paying, you know, multiple five figures over the the lifetime working with them, uh a big, you know, an eight figureure company. They were like, "Oh, we're hiring someone. You need to be an expert in email. you need to be a woman and you need to have five years of direct response experience, right? Um, I had only been writing copy for maybe like eight months. I was a male obviously and I had nothing about email. I didn't even know metrics. I was literally they were asking me questions about email and I was looking it up. I didn't have chatbt that back then. I was looking it up on Google like what do these metrics mean? Okay. But because I impressed them with all the stuff I'm going to tell you here and because I did good in the interview and stuff like that, they hired me. I got the job and I worked with them for, you know, a year, two years, right? And gave out other kinds of money and that was a big company. So don't don't limit yourself. Just apply. Now one thing that I put on here is apply as practice. Meaning again the job of copy is to convince people to do something. So you know remember when I said reps is the most important thing. Well, one of the most important reps you can do is just selling yourself. Okay? So literally most of my early uh profiles I didn't even use templates. I didn't have AI. I just wrote it by hand every single day. And that put the grooves in my brain about how to actually apply uh and think like a a copywriter. And I would come up with new lines or new angles or new approaches. and it was just me getting reps every single day. So, I just recommend that you do that. Five to 10 per day. That's it. Just bite the bullet. Five to 10 per day. In general, when your profile uh so when profile is maxed out, you will get 10% response rate. And you know, typically if you get a response rate and you're not dumb, you may be able to close like 30 to 50% of those, you know, and you follow up. So that basically means that you're getting about two to 10% of every two yeah about around I would say 1 to 2% [snorts] of every job that you apply for. Okay. And this is like when your profile is maxed out when you have good things going for you. When you're in beginner it might be even less. So this basically means that if you apply 10 times per day you are likely to get zero. That's it. If you apply 10 times per day for a week, you're still likely only will get zero of those jobs. You'll get a response rate by that point. You should have, you know, maybe five, 10 response rates, but you should probably get zero. But if you apply five to 10 times per day over the course of two weeks, what is that? 5* 14 is what? 70. I hope my math is is right. Hope I don't embarrass myself here. used to be an SAT tutor. I should know this. I can't remember the last time I did math. All right. Not that dumb. So 70 or it's like 140. So what's 2% of 70? Like one. So if you do this for two weeks, you should get anywhere from 1.4 to like three clients. So basically one to three clients is what she what you should what you need. Now here's the secret with Upwork is like when you get a one client that's going to just make your profile better. It's going to move you up the rankings of Upwork. So every single client you get it just it's an exponential curve. It really really is an exponential curve. Okay? So you're going to get one client, then you get more clients, more clients. And the amazing thing is those clients, if you do a good job for them, they will continue to hire you for more stuff, right? On platform or off platform. They will then recommend you to other people. then you can use referral strategies, then you can use whatever and then you're building this portfolio. So it becomes this big whatever. So one to three clients doesn't seem like a lot and it may not be maybe for 10 bucks or 50 bucks or 100 bucks or 150 bucks. It's not changing your life, but it's those stepping stones that's going to move you along this exponential curve and then everything will shoot up. Cosmin right now has more clients than you can possibly deal with. He is cutting clients and pushing people away and people come to him now like through Upwork and off of Upwork because he's just proven himself and worked with some of the biggest brands that are out there and has amazing winning ads that like really top marketers are breaking down. Like he's basically set, okay? And people are coming to him. But it didn't start that way, but every single client you get moves you closer and closer along the way. So again, the reason I say 5 to 10 per day is like if you want to do two per day, that's great. But just understand that you may have to do a hundred uh proposals before you get a client. Okay? Again, sometimes it happens earlier, sometimes it happens a little bit later, but it's like if I if I know I need to do a 100 proposals to get one client, then I can do it, you know, in two months or I can do it in two weeks just by applying five to 10 times per day. It is a numbers game and these are the numbers to expect. Pretty much always true. Number four is overd deliver every single time. This is where the skill comes in. This is why I make the videos I make. This is why I hope you buy my products and watch my videos and study everything else. Okay? When I was getting there, people were like, "What what books do I read?" I read every copyrightiting book. What courses do I buy? I bought every copyrightiting course, everything I could get my hands on that I could afford at the time. What videos do I watch? Everything. I became obsessive about mastering the skill and the craft because I wanted to be as good as possible. And if you read my reviews, which I'll show you in a second, I went over and beyond with everyone. I use it as a learning opportunity because I'm like this job may be $10, but me working with the client, thinking through the problem, that's going to make me so much more money down the long term. It's still how I approach everything, right? I'm just always trying to learn as much as possible and pushing myself in it because that will pay dividends as you stack those skills. So, you want to overd deliver every single time. This is in terms of how you present yourself. So, like, are you on time to your meetings? How do you respond to the client? Are you fast? Do you hit the deadlines that you do? Do you try to think beyond to to what needs they might have? Um, do you spend time on meetings with them? Do you suggest new ideas? Do you actually care about what they're doing? If they ask for three emails, do you give them five emails? Right? Do you overd deliver every single time? This is going to get you amazing reviews and ratings. It's going to make them want to keep working with you. It's going to help you increase your skill set, and it's going to make them more likely to recommend you to other people who may want to hire you. Done. Number five, ask for good reviews and protect against bad. So, one thing that I do, not everyone does this and people don't typically don't do it, but I I did it this way, is like when I would get a job, I would just get a verbal agreement for the job. I would do the work, then I would give them the work before I even set up the contract, and then they would be like, "Oh, this is really really good." And then they'd be like, "Okay, like, let's set up the contract." And then and paid them. The reason I did that, it's a little bit defensive, right? Because I they could have just taken the work I gave and ran off with it. Uh, nobody did, but they could have. Um, the reason I did this is to protect myself with my downside, right? If I turn something in and they were had a bad mood or they just they had a bad attitude, right? Like I I try to make sure that I only work with good clients. So, I look at the feedback they give to other people. I look at um kind of their vibe, right? Are they going to be nitpicky and annoying Karens? Are they going to be like sort of like the Chad like whatever, [ __ ] it. Like, here's the money. Spend it. Send it. Right? Like I'm not going to take the time to give someone a bad review. I just don't care. But other people will. And what that will do is early on it will impact your score quite a bit, right? And if you have like a bunch of five star reviews and then a couple one or two star reviews, like it's bad. And often times that comes from, you know, if you're overd delivering, it typically comes from the client on the other side kind of being a dick or or you just misreading the the situation. So, uh, the way that I avoided that is I turned in the work, I made sure that they seemed to be happy with it, then I got the request, right? Because if I turned in the work and they were disappointed, we didn't actually have a contract, so they couldn't even like even leave me a review to be honest if they wanted to, right? But if we had already started the contract, they could close it and leave a review at any time. So again, this is me being overprotective, but long story short, just make sure you're asking for good reviews. Like do good work, ask for the reviews, ask for it to be positive, and try to protect against the bad ones. It's not the end of the day, but it will slow you down quite a bit, especially earlier on, right? Like Cosman at this point, if you got a bad review, it's like he has so many fivestar reviews, it doesn't really matter, right? But if you're earlier on, it's it's quite different. Okay, the sixth thing is you want to get top rated status as soon as possible. This is where the game changes. Top rated status is really easy to get. It means you earned $1,000 on the platform. It means you have you've been active over the last 90 days and you have like consistent positive reviews, five star reviews, and your profile is is filled out. It's done. That's not that hard to get to, right? But very few people are in top rated status. I think it's like less than 10%. Right? That's the competition you're dealing with. Once you're in top rated status, it's like great, now people will start coming to you. Like people still send me job applications. I haven't been on Upwork or active on Upwork for like three or four years. people still send me stuff, right? Then from top rated status, you get to top rated plus and then from there it's like the everything reverses. People just reach out to you. Like when I hire on Upwork, I don't even make job postings to be honest. I just go and look at the people who are top rated and the best and I just send them direct messages and I'm like, I want to work with you. I want to work with you. I want to work with you. Same thing that probably happens to Cosmin, right? So the best clients like I love Upwork. I still hire on Upwork. I love to pay people. So, um, I will just go and I'll select and sharpshoot the people who have this top rated status. So, that's what you want to earn. The last thing you can use is a nuclear VSSL. I'll talk a little bit about that in just a second. Okay. Then what you do is you parlay clients off of Upwork. Um, and you add in 30 second referrals. I made a video about this later. I think it's called How to be a creative strategist in 2026. Um, and I say parlay clients off Upwork because typically this the way things go is you meet good clients on Upwork. They want to take you off the platform and you work with them. Done. Okay, that's basically how this works, right? And then they recommend you to other people and and then that's how you can make your $10,000 a month. All right, so some rapid rules. Uh quick jobs are the best. So move in and out. Typically, when you're first starting out, your jobs are the first jobs you do are not going to be that highly paid. $5, $10, $50, whatever. It's not going to be with great clients. So you don't want to get stuck in these long-term arrangements where you're working with people for a long time. So get quick jobs that you can get in and out to get the review, right? Because the first thing you're trying to do is just get just stack reviews really really quick. Once you have a few five star reviews and testimonials under your belt, now you want to start looking for volume. So, you actually want to get paid, right? Uh because you could hit the top rated status. Once you hit top rated status, now you actually want to start hunting for some of those whales. We'll talk about that in a second. Again, like I said, it's hard in the beginning. It gets really easy later on. Uh everyone should do this. I don't care what level you're at. You cannot complain about clients if you don't do this. Uh I say work with the shitties because you're one, two, with a smiley face. What I mean by the shitties is yes, there are shitty clients. And when you first start out, chances are you're probably a shitty freelancer. And I don't mean that in a demeaning way, but you're only as good as you can be because you don't have the experience, right? So, you're an inexperienced freelancer. So, why would you expect to work with really experienced, amazing business owners? You're probably going to be working with inexperienced business owners who are not that good, the shitty clients. That's okay, right? But it doesn't mean you need to stay there. You just need to get in and out. Make sure to protect your downside, learn the skills, and then move on. And eventually, you graduate to the best clients. Don't worry about connects, okay? I I know it seems weird, but it's like if you're in a in a scarcity, poverty mindset around connects, I understand there are real limitations. I'm not trying to like demean anyone. Uh I'm just saying like if that's the mindset at which you're going about this, then I don't believe that you really have the resourcefulness or the right mindset to make you move forward. Right? So that's the litmus test. You figure out how to get your connects. Donate your blood. I don't care. Figure out how to get your connects to make this thing work. And uh you just simply should not worry about them. Spend connects. Like you should be trying to you should be trying to like just throw connects like you're in a [ __ ] strip club. Like I don't give a [ __ ] about my connects, right? Um that's the mindset you want as a sort of abundance mindset. So it's not a limiting belief because for some people it is. They're like, "Oh, I'm afraid to apply because I'm worried about these connects." But it's like the reps that you're going to get, the probability you're going to get is going to be way you're going to get a huge ROI if you are resourceful and push through. And then again, you must follow every step. Exactly. people try to skip the process and it doesn't work out for them. Okay, [snorts] there's basically three levels of Upwork mastery. So, level zero is where you got nothing. So, first thing you want to do is just to get in the game. You got to bootstrap your testimonials, like I said, and complete your profile. Good. Now, you're level one. You're in the game. First thing you're going to do is try to get 10 fivestar testimonials in and out doing overd delivering, doing everything I said. Try to get a $1,000 earned, right? Then, you want to get top rated status. Typically, if you accomplish this on level one, this happens automatically, but sometimes you need a little bit more time. So, all you're trying to do is get top-rated status. Once you have top rated status, you want to start hunting whales. So, you want to start focusing on making more money, which uh typically comes from using a nuclear VSSL and using some of the proposals I'll show. That's when you get top rated status. Then you parlay off the account and you do new connections. Okay. So, what do I mean by a nuclear VSSL? I don't have time to go into it into this video, but essentially what it is is you make a custom VSSL for the job that you're applying to. The logic went like this. I started using these when I first uh started because I was like, I want to work with better clients, but I don't really have the experience to compete. So, um I was writing like long proposals to people that were like a sales letter. And I was like, all right, well, what's better than a sales letter? A video sales letter. So, I'm like, I'm going to make a video sales letter for every client I apply to. Right now, instead of being, you know, you can do it in a segmented kind of way, but what I decided to do was like, I'm going to make a custom one, meaning every single time I want to apply for the best jobs, right? And I only do this for the best clients. I'm going to personally record a new VSSL for them, right? And I'm going to make sure they know it's recorded, right? So, it's not going to be pre-recorded or anything. I'm gonna even say the date and say the exact title of the thing they're applying to and show the screenshot, okay? And then I went through it and every time I did that, I landed about 50% of those jobs, right? Which was it was super super high, right? It went from like 10% response rate to like landing like, you know, to like a 1 to 5% closing the job to like I'm closing 50% of everything I apply to even when I'm not qualified because people love this VSSL and I recommend it and it works for people, right? Even Cosman said it down here. Uh this is one strategy responsible for like 80% of my success and almost no one is using it. Okay. Uh and basically that's what it is. It's it's just a video form of the proposal where you mention the exact date and the exact whatever that you're applying to, right? And then talk about, you know, why you're why you're uh doing this. Cool. And that's basically the flow. So, in my own experience, just to kind of show you like what here's what I mean by a fivestar review. You want people saying stuff like this. Lucas is a rock star, right? Just reading Lucas's proposal, I knew that he was the man to work with. Uh Lucas was phenomenal. like you want people. I couldn't believe how he went above and beyond with us on his project. He had more than a deep understanding. He understood many nuances. Um uh with Lucas in the fold, he been able to craft our message. He found the right words. I'm trying to see. Let's see. [snorts] Very comfortably bounce ideas and suggest edits. And this was important for me. Uh very respect respectfully and with a reasonable explanation guided me into changing or keep keeping or changing the copy. He went above and beyond the scope of the project. He not only got the job done well, but he actively wanted to participate. Uh, eager learner, great team spirit, determined to succeed at a high level. Again, it's not hard to stand out, but this is what you want because when people hop in your your profile and they're like, "Man, this guy's a rock star, right?" Or look at look at Cosmins. [snorts] Uh, his writings are amazing. The engagement is high. Um, I had the pleasure of working with him. Uh, he helped me rewrite my entire sales page. his knowledge of copyrightiting. What really amazed me was his research skills. Like you're just showing how amazing you are. This is what I mean by a fivestar review. That's really what you want. Uh and then here's some other ones, right? Like brilliant, uh absolute pleasure, all that kind of stuff. Uh and then also to show you like these were my first jobs on the platform. $5, $10, right? Like started from the bottom. Started for for change, right? But again, it didn't matter. I put work in as if it was a $50,000 client. And guess what? within a year of doing $ five dollars, I was able to, you know, be writing sales letters that people were paying me $50,000 to write. Okay? So, it's like that's that's the level at which you got to think. Basically, it's exponential this kind of stuff. And then here's all the jobs that you see here. Um, and then real quick, I put a proposal template. Hi, I client name. This is what I use. You may want to change it because a lot of people use it, but uh it still works. Hi, I can help you with this job. I way to do this 100% risk to you. And then here's just basically my whole proposal and profile. You can see the real examples on here. Um, you can get access to this. Again, I put everything in in my email dump. Uh, you just put your email in. I'll send you the thing and you can you can unsubscribe. I don't care. Um, but that allows me to send that to email it to you. All of these files, everything will get sent to you uh for all my videos, including this one. So, if you want to use the proposal, that's what I recommend that you do. And that is basically it. Hopefully, this helps you to make more money on Upwork as a creative strategist. Okay. This is all the sauce that I have. Um, that's basically it. Uh, let me know in the comments below any sort of other videos you want to see or questions that you have. I try to read and respond to everything and then make videos based on that. So, um, that's super super helpful. There's some products and stuff below like Copy Blocks and Hyperdrive. You heard me talk about those a million different times. But if you're interested, there's some products and things that you can buy. $27 you can opt in or get stuff for free. Uh, and a free AI marketing newsletter, stuff like that. So, again, thank you so much and I will see you in the next video. Peace.