What is up, guys? Today, I'm speaking with Jordan Crawford, the founder of Blueprint GTM, and a guy that's a lot of people refer to as the best GTM engineer in the world. He runs 100% of his work inside of Claude code, and throughout this episode, trust me when I say that he does not hold back. [music] We get into chatting about how Claude code changed the way that Jordan uses Clay, what Jordan's tech stack looks like in 2026, alongside mentions of some super super underrated tools that I bet you've never heard of in the past. And yes, we even go on a slight tangent talking about the differences in use cases across different AI web researchers like Exa versus Parallel versus Claygent. And I even put Jordan on the spot for him to give me his best frameworks in order to figure out go-to-market for companies that have literally zero data when it comes to running any sort of outbound or cold outreach campaigns. Now, more than that, I went ahead and spent the last half an hour putting all of the talking points into a guide, which will be the second link in the description underneath the video. So, go check it out. And if there is a specific topic that you want to skip to throughout the video, just kindly use the timestamps underneath the video. And other than that, let's jump straight into the episode. So, Jordan, welcome. Super super excited to have you on today. It a couple of months, I think, of back-and-forth messaging in the past, and I'm so glad that we finally have this opportunity for you to join the Full Funnel Rich podcast. How are you doing today? And if you could give us a quick intro like Wikipedia summary introduction of yourself, that would be greatly appreciated as well for the audience that may not have had the pleasure of meeting you just yet. Yeah. Yeah, thanks. Well, thanks so much for having me. I'm I'm very grateful. The quick sort of Wikipedia summary of of Crawford is I'm a fractional go-to-market engineer and my goal is to help teams send messages that they are would be proud to receive. So, this is the sort of bar that you can determine what AI slop versus AI excellence looks like is to reverse engineer from the best possible message that you could send. And how do you send that at basically high scale and high volume while maintaining high quality? So, this is the kind of thing that I'm always trying to build for my clients and 100% of my work is in Claude code and teaching people how to use Claude code to build at a much faster rate and ship campaigns at a much, much quicker rate with higher quality information and better, better outputs. >> I I think that's great. In terms of TechCrunch, I'll make sure to link all of the tools down below in the guide, which will be the second link in the description under the video. We'll also make sure to give away a bunch of free credits to sign up for a full enrich accounts, which obviously gives you the best coverage globally when it comes to mobile numbers, email address, all of that good stuff. But, Jordan, the reason that I got to chat to you today and the reason that, like I was looking forward to this conversation, I even asked my community this morning, like, what are some questions that we have for Jordan? And most people just said it's because we need to talk about go-to-market. And to start off with, just the theory behind go-to-market. So, when you speak to an early-stage startup or let's imagine that it's a first-time founder that you're in a room with right now, how would you explain the thinking behind go-to-market for someone who has not really done it in the past? Just so that we can start from first principles. >> When people think about how they should go to market, the first thing they think of is the biggest problem is that my money is trapped in your wallet. And if I can just get my money out of your wallet, then I'll be fine. And you can see this in the messages that they send. And it looks like this. Hi Tim, congratulations on being named Tim. What a great name that you have. Boy, it must have been hard to have that great name. My company is a B2B SaaS solution that sells uh transformation and AI go-to-market. Do you have 15 minutes for me to tell you about everything that I could ever want from you? That's what all these messages sound like. And the reason is that we haven't built our go-to-market knowledge from information asymmetry. What I mean by that, and this kind of powers everything that I do, is if you have 50, 100, 1,000 customers, you should know more about the 1,001 customer than that customer knows about their own reality. And this is almost never the case. And so, I've only heard two early-stage founders speak in a way that was like, "Oh my gosh, your go-to-market is going to be so easy." And the first one was a German guy. I'm going to do the accent here. So, basically, he's like, "So, what I do is I look at Coinbase, and I want to uh start a practice doing dental billing management. And of course, I do not know anything about dental billing management. And so, what I do is I uh Mr. Jacobson, I work for Mr. Jacobson, and I do his billing for free. And I sit down, and every day I come in, and I fill out his bills, and I do this for 6 months. And let me tell you, a code 15356, that is a common dental procedure. It is just a cleaning. And I have filed over 5,652 of these." And like, I was like, I just wanted to hear everything this guy had to say because he knew that he didn't know anything about his customer reality. He knew the business he wanted to create. And the first thing he did was not code. He's like, "I just want to understand your reality. I want to understand what you do and who you are." And I had one of these conversations last night with I said to this woman, I said, "You're going to be a billionaire because she was so on top of it." And so, she's like, "Well, we sell basically permit intelligence to local governments." And And the the outcome is like, "How do you speed up a building?" And she was like, "I don't know these people's world." So, she reached out to them and say, "Hey, can I have some amount of your time?" And she chatted with a thousand of these state and city officials. And I said, "How did you know when to stop?" And she's like, "When I knew what they were going to say before they said it." And I didn't go sell, I just understood what are their common problems. And she's never had to do any outbound because every time she has a conversation, she said, "Other people you could refer me to?" And she's just closing a multi-million dollar deal with one of the with all an entire state. And that only happened because she had information asymmetry. She understood the customer better than they understood themselves by learning so much about them. And if we can do that, and by the way, this is also narrowing your customer. Because if you sell like this is hard for me to do or a lot of go-to-market engineers to do cuz who do we sell? Anyone in their mother that sells technology. And it's hard to understand them, but it's a lot easier to understand state regulators building state regulators. That is a knowable universe with knowable problems. And those problems, if you understand five customers, 10 customers, 100 customers, your knowledge compounds, it does not fracture. With most horizontal go-to-market, your knowledge fractures. If you talk to an auto owner one day, a a go-to-market engineer at the other day, a plumber the next day, and they're all using your back-end QuickBooks software, becomes impossible because you don't compound, right? The those people have different So, this is the this is the purpose of good go-to-market is to understand your customer so well that you know their problems. And that means that you can target better. You know who you should talk to, not based on ZoomInfo filters, based on problems. You understand the problems that they have. You know who has the worst version of the problems. And mostly this is just repeating back, doing great targeting, and repeating back your targeting to the people that have the worst version of the problem. And in the best case, your product has a demonstrable ROI, and you could send a message that is basically, here's the output that you can expect if we work together, and here's how I know that to be true. So, that's kind of the the longest-winded version of how I think about this. >> Got you. And then, if we talk about just the the GTM piece that we just talked about there, Jordan, but if we talk a bit more in a hypothetical scenario, so let's say we work with an AI voice agent for home service businesses. So, for example, an AI voice agent for healthcare practices, just like as you know there are so many startups that raise quite a bit of money. So, in that instance, how would you, if you were to break this down into the kind of, you know, the steps that we can teach to others, or if, you know, that one could take in order to discover, hopefully, this like message market fit, as a lot of people market it, and and so on. How would you go about it from first principles all the way through? >> Good question. The very first place I would begin is who has bought this already, why did they buy, and who is taking ridiculous advantage of you. So, which customers are paying $100 a month and getting $100,000 a month of value, and what was their situation? So, the very first thing that I do in building an engagement is I build these things called customer dossiers, and it's a skill that you can consume if you're a yearly subscriber. And what that skill does is it says, go find everything in the CRM, everything the customer said, and everything they've ever done, and put it on a timeline. And in the first call, they might say, well, let's use your example. Let's say you're talking with a hospital that is thinking about buying an AI agent a voice AI agent, and they said, "Oh, you know, what's really hard is that people call us after an emergency surgery, and they need to know if they need to come in right now, or if they can wait till their checkups." Like, "Okay, that sounds pretty important, right?" It's like, "Well, what what are the cons- And let's just imagine this is on a a call recording of that. And they said, "Well, well, the cons- What what are the consequences of that not going well?" It's like, "Well, if they tear their stitches, it is a $500,000 surgery that they have to replace. And we could know this by asking three or four questions to know that their stitches are going to tear. Okay. Now, imagine another caller that we have a call transcript on. And they said, "Well, why do you need a agent for your healthcare company?" It's like, "Well, I'm a podiatrist, and it would be really nice to schedule appointments." It's like, "Well, what do you use now?" It's like, "Well, I have a in-office person." It's like, "Okay. And why do you want this agent?" "Well, because people sometimes call after hours." "So, how many people have called after hours?" "I don't know, about 10 in a month." Those are people that probably both would transact that would buy this thing, but one of them has a much greater need. And the consequences are much greater. And so, let's go take this. So, now you know you're not going to sell the to the podiatrist. The podiatrist comes inbound, great. They want to buy, let them buy. You're going to sell to the ER doctor that if the customer doesn't get an answer right away with a voice agent that they could be required to have a $500,000 surgery. And by the way, they they might die, you know? And so, if that's the case, right, that is a much better fit for for the voice agent. So, okay, great. And let's assume that this voice agent has the liability insurance or whatever and can answer these questions. Let's say it's kind of designed for that. So, then you have to ask the question, "Well, how can I" So, now you know you're not going to target podiatrists. You're going to target ER hospitals. Well, now the question is, "Well, which ER hospitals?" Well, you know, from the call intelligence, we know that this is heart surgery. So, you have to go figure out what are the ERs that that deal in heart surgery. And then you you can basically go figure out, "Well, what are the folks that deal in this" because this is Medicaid data, this is public. "Who are the ones that are performing the most amount of these types of heart surgeries?" Okay, great. So, we have started with first principles, which is go take everything the customer has ever said or done and discriminate who has the worst version of the problem. In this case, we've identified ERs that do heart surgeries. Then, you know how to target, great. You're going to target ER heart surgeries. Now, let's talk about what to say. Well, all of this work started from first principles, from who has the problem now. And so, imagine what that message might look like. It might say, you know, from my Medicare data, it looks like you've done at least 425 of these heart surgeries. And looking into it even deeper, it seems like 10% of them have had to come back for this very expensive re-stitching procedure. I'm just making stuff up. I'm not a doctor. >> Sure. >> And my understanding is that that a lot of people don't pay, and those are $500,000 procedures. What if you could prevent those? And by the way, we have five ER that are now at zero tear, you know, stitch stitching procedures. And before they were at 50 a month. Like, is this is this is are you trying to help prevent your customers from coming back in? Like, that message, for sure they have that problem. For sure it is an important problem for them. It is costing a dollar amount. We can quantify that dollar amount. We know who's doing the most amount of heart surgeries. So, the message is just a re-descriptioning of the targeting. And the targeting comes from the first principle of understanding customers that have actually bought. And that's what that looks like. And in the best case, there's an even better form of this message where you're basically in the ideal case, you can say, "We have found that these three screening questions are the very best to ask for." And so, in your automated call, you should at least, you know, they may they have the automated pick up services. Like, at least tell the the people that are calling these three things. And you could automate making that call programmatically. And right now, a person picks up, and you should for these surgeries, you should direct it here. So, you could improve that message because you have a better understanding now from other customers of what they have done and what agents, what your AI agent has actually, what those conversations look like. So, you can access your own internal data for that AI agent to have better messaging, better targeting, and better outcomes. >> Awesome. And then if we just contrast this with the approach that you would take in a situation where the startup has no data whatsoever, so let's imagine it's completely pre-seed. They just maybe just quit their job to start this software venture. Just for example, we have um I know right now on LinkedIn there are a lot of posts going around where it's like, "Oh hey, I quit my 9-5. Here is my next project." You know, that kind of thing. If someone already is thinking of like starting a startup and they're they're in charge of go-to-market, how would you approach that if you don't have that data to back anything up in terms of you don't have, you know, you're no taking notes from past calls and all you have is the typical onboarding form that you would likely fill in with some hypothesis uh with a typical lead gen agency. >> Yeah, so let's divide this into businesses that make it too hard on themselves and um and so let's talk about this in two Let's talk about a bad a bad startup and a good startup. [laughter] And uh I'm adding normative phrases here because a bad from a go-to-market standpoint. So, a bad startup is uh they have a value prop like AI agents for bookkeeping. It's like, "Well, what does that mean? And for whose bookkeeping? Uh the Boeing has a different bookkeeping problem than Jordan. And what do these AI agents do? Do they do taxes? And how well do they do taxes? Do they do just monthly bookkeeping? Do they do uh cross-state taxes? Right? Like there's a thousand other questions and that startup has started too broad. So, that's like one version. And I think that those people have no chance because they just are going to have to luck their way into uh some product market fit here. It's going to be really hard. I let And let's talk about another version of this which is And let's like stick with that same example. Bookkeeping, close your monthly books for plumbers, right? Amazing. So, you can talk with and it doesn't matter what the vertical is, but the idea here is the nice thing about like plumbers, for example, or car mechanics, or really anyone that isn't in tech is that they have likely the same workflows. You're targeting just a specific part of the problem, and you're not competing with like these people are not in cloud code all day long, right? You're not competing with oh, I'll just use Claude to go do that. It's like no, they have their full-time jobs. And so, what these people need to do is exactly what I said earlier, which is and you just go talk with a bunch of plumbers. Hey, what do you do when you close your books now? Well, I use QuickBooks. And it's like, well, what's the problem with that? Well, and they'll tell you these specific things. They'll say something like, well, I have to order a lot of elbow joints, and I'm not really sure and I have so much inventory, but I if I'm on a job, I don't necessarily know that I need them. And so, it's like, okay, well, you might then build in your product a way to account for the cost of the inventory of elbow joints. So, the first thing you should do is not go build something, it's to go talk with 100 plumbers and pay them if you have to. And just understand their problems. And once you can describe their problems really well, then you know exactly what to build. And once you know what to build, you the the universe of the problems that you have to solve become way different and way more specific. So, plumbers might have a problems of tracking the price of their inventory. They may have problems of reporting of checking to make sure that that inventory like doesn't include lead, and making sure that the the their individual plumbers that are going out are you know, are are accounting for their time properly, right? I don't know what it looks like. But, once you understand that, you know what to say and you know who to target. And that just becomes so much easier, but you have to do the obnoxious thing, the thing that no one wants to do is that you have to talk with people that would actually buy your thing. And instead of selling them, just is don't sell them, just be like, what does your world look like? What are you doing today? Because you're always competing against the next best alternative. And honestly, maybe QuickBooks is totally fine for plumbers. But you can't know that and you shouldn't do that by building a bunch of software first and then seeing how hard it is to sell it. And the best litmus test that I have here is I had a guy that that ran a a company that does dishwashing. And he was selling it to restaurants. And he was like it was like grinding, but he was getting restaurants on board and stuff. And they just wouldn't close. They wouldn't close. And I said, "Well, let's explore a different area." And so we found this this niche of dish wash hubs. And that's what they did all day long. They just did dish washing. And he was able to send a terrible message. "Hey, we have a robot for dishwashing." Like a total descriptive awful message, not about their problem at all. And he just nailed like seven out of 10 meetings with these dish hubs. And that's because he focused on a niche and a niche that was underserved where most of their business problem was the thing that he did. And so that's kind of what you have to do. And if go to market is hard for you, you're too wide. You picked too wide of a problem. You're not competing in a category and you're or you're competing very poorly in a category. So just pick a niche category that doesn't isn't currently well served by technology, understand their problems deeply, and then you'll have no problem with knowing what to build. But no one wants to begin there. >> Mhm. And one thing that we touched on briefly already is the idea of selling to brick and mortar local businesses similar to, you know, like the dishwasher hubs, if you will, versus selling to the tech technical audiences that obviously will have LinkedIn accounts most of the time. So in your opinion now, what's the how does the tech stack change? Or what are your go-to tools to look and find those local businesses? I know you touched on Appify, for example, and some other tools, you know, where you could scrape Google Maps for locations. But what if you had to boil it down to like your top three tips for local business lead generation, what would your top three tips be on on as like a quick Pareto kind of 80/20 bit of wisdom from you there, Jordan. >> Well, the very best thing to do is to always work backwards. And so, what I might suggest you do is if you Let's say you have 50 customers where you know their email, you know their phone number, you know who owns it. >> Drop it in the chat GPT um deep research or and or Claude deep research. You can do some Claude code, too. And say, "Go figure out where you could find this person's information on the way." And it's like, [clears throat] "Great. This one was available in like Florida has every dentist publicly listed with all of their emails." So, it's like, "Great. I found this in Florida in this Florida database. I found this on the website. I uh was able to locate this email here and this phone was registered here." And so, now you have You basically can then say, "Hey, Claude. Here are the 10 sources that I have found from from my existing customers with known good data where this stuff exist. Go build forward from those sources for me." So, that way you don't have to sort of And when I do my work, mostly I have Claude code go and find I I built a database of 316 different public data sets uh that my agent Crawford will go search. But, if you do it this way, then you can say, "Claude, help me figure out how I would find other information like this." And the models do exceptionally well when they're working backwards from known examples. So, that's the first thing that And And by the way, you can do this by researching one by one. So, that way when you research, just record yourself. So, go research 10 leads manually, 20, 50, 50 leads manually. And just record your screen and say, "All right. I'm Googling this. Oh, wow. I found that this They have the This Kentucky registry has information. Wow, that's really interesting. Oh, there's a PDF here. Um okay. I trust this PDF here because there's a date on it." And so, when you get into those level specifics, Claude can go abstract all of that away. And that's like the very, very best thing to do. And by the way, Claude can find tools to go get that information. So, you might say it might say, "Well, I found one on the Secretary of State's website for Florida." And you can say, "Great, Claude, go send an agent out to go find the best way to get that information." It's like, "Well, you can buy it directly for $100. So, and here's how to do that." So, that's You should always begin in the inverse or with manual research, and then have Claude abstract the things that you have found to be true on the ground. >> Um and one thing that's I know because we share a student base which is somewhat similar across I know some educational courses that you have and the community that I have right now as well. Um one thing that I know you're relatively well, when I say relatively, I think you're well-renowned for in our small circles is the prompt engineering side of things. So, do you want to give some tips for prompt engineering? So, specifically how to craft the right prompts. I know one thing that you mentioned at the start of the call today is that your job is practically speaking. So, I guess you use a voice dictation tool. I know there are a lot on the market. You can probably name-drop a couple in case. Uh but over to you to share some of that wisdom um when it comes to prompting. >> Yeah, I use WhisperFlow, uh but there's another one called Super Whisper. There's a lot of, you know, Claude has a built-in voice model. I think that the best thing to think about when prompting is to ask Claude to ask you for more information, to speak not type because typing you edit yourself. And so, you just want to kind of blabber. Well, check this and check that. And what about this? And what about that? And then you want to think about stacking of context and how that's important. So, the first thing that I will do is I will say, "I want you to go research these things first." And only after you've researched these things, go create a forked agent. And a forked agent will just take all of that and copy itself and continue on. And so, you really want to think about what are the tools? And there's like there's sub-agents, and sub-agents can now spawn other sub-agents with tools. So, you kind of have to think and there are these things called loops where you can have it keep running under certain conditions. So, more important than ever, the prompts are less important than the tool capabilities. And what you want to do is to think about if you were to train someone from scratch. Like imagine cloning an adult human and they are, you know, they are 30 years old and have don't know anything about anything. And you had to imprint knowledge on them in a order that like the order matters, right? You can't say go find an email. It's like, what? It's like, hey, just so you know, here's what an email is, here is where it generally lives, here's ways to evaluate if an email is good. There's about eight patterns. First.last name, etc. So, you want to build that context in the right way. And then if you think about splitting up that context and saying, "Great, go deploy a sub-agent to go research this thing and only come back with the answer." Because the models perform so much better in the first 20 to 50% of their context window. And when you're deploying sub-agents, they don't use any of the context window cuz they just come back with results. So, the very best thing you can do is think about understand the tools that Claude Code has access to or Codex. And then fracture your knowledge and structure that knowledge in appropriate blocks. Um so, and you can just direct Claude to And you can ask Claude to help you with that, too, by the way. >> Mm. And on that as well, I know recently they just introduced auto mode. Um so, I'm curious on your side. Are you the kind of person Do you Do you have like your configured permissions set in advance or do you just use auto mode or do you have a default? >> Well, I used to use bypass permissions and then I deleted my whole home folder. >> Oh. >> Um which is which is a problem. Um I use auto mode now. Usually I just don't ask for When I ask for crazy things, crazy things happen. Um and so, I just try to I try to use Jordan mode, which is ask for the things that the consequence of those things is not won't burn me. So, if I say, "Go find all the files that I'm not using and delete them." and Claude makes a mistake, that's bad. Like, it'll happen. So, I I do use auto mode. It's the only mode I use now. I never use bypass permissions, which basically doesn't ask me any questions. And I have trained my Claude to like, if you're publishing something and you can use these things called hooks. And the hooks are like, if you ever use the remove command, stop and ask the user. If you ever use the publish command, stop and ask the user. So, I have some hooks that on auto mode that were like, "Hey, are you sure you want to do this?" And that will just block Claude and it will figure out how either how to go around them or to ask me for permission. >> And who would you say are two or three people that you look up to in this space when it comes to keeping on top of all the Claude code trends? So, I think Claude code is the first part of it. And then the second part is the actual GTM, you know, side of things as well. Because I like to give a shout out section because I like to feature all of them in the guides that, you know, we provide to the audience in the back of the call. >> Yeah, there is a My keyboard's not working right now, but there is a guy named Ramjad. Let me get his last name. >> You've got to get the power of AI agent Alan now to find him, right? >> Yeah, exactly. I watch his stuff pretty religiously and he is a He is so good at at distilling like, what's the latest that's happening with Claude, how should you be using it? He will actually interview He'll interview folks at Claude Co Oh, here he is. Ramjad. And so, he is so He's on YouTube. It's like at, let's see, at r a m j a d is his YouTube handle. And then there's another channel called AI Explained, which I love this guy. He's got a great English accent. And that's AI Explained Official, which is the hilarious. He's got about 500,000 subscribers. And so, those are the two people that I will religiously watch on YouTube. And they're really good at cutting up the They don't really do a lot of And then I always find out what Eric Nosalowski is is because he's always doing some crazy stuff. >> Wow. Yeah, do do you have a lot of ideas for SAS products as well? Because I know I know you mentioned you have your agents that's I guess people can go out and purchase in order to get access to over 300 different public data sources. Do you see yourself building a software? Because I understand that right now what you're largely doing is the agency side of the business. Do you see yourself pursuing the software route given you know your skill set? >> Well, I mean, yeah. I mean, by the way, I do have to go here so this will be the last bit. But I do have a tool called Edge Co-Pilot that is Jordan in your terminal. So for $2,500 a year, you basically can purchase that product and it's all of my knowledge, all of my skills. There's like 20 to 50 skills now. There's like 400 wiki entries of all of my knowledge. So the idea here is that you can chat with all of my contacts and you don't need me anymore. So the product that I'm trying to sell is like my my brain and like all of the future ideas that I have. So I probably will be double down will double down on that. And in the future I might end up building products, but but right now this thing seems to be doing well. My Substack is growing great and I think the people that have purchased the yearly commitment are using it all the time. I mean, they're really really active. And it's always watching what you do. You there's a couple modes, but one of them is always watching what you do and it can provide suggestions from all of my knowledge as you prompt. >> All right guys, just a quick pause. I hope you're enjoying the podcast so far. And I just wanted to let you know that this podcast episode would not be possible without our partners Full Enrich. And I'm sure you can see that this podcast was uploaded through Full Enriches YouTube channel. So just two quick asks from me. First of all, if you're getting some sort of value and you're enjoying the conversation, please consider subscribing to the Full Enrich YouTube channel. And secondly, if you are in B2B sales, I'm sure you've come across a lot of different email finders and you found that some email finders are better than others across certain industries and certain geographies. And if you're like most people, you probably have two or three email finder subscriptions at once, which is obviously quite expensive. So, instead, what I want you to consider is to try out Full Enrich, because they give you both email and mobile data waterfalls, meaning that you can find emails and mobile numbers with the best global coverage across any sort of B2B industries and geographies. And yes, it has native integrations with Clay, with Claude Code, CodeX. They have a CLI integration. And you can basically plug Full Enrich into any tool that you're currently using. So, if you want to take out some free credits on us, just go check out the link, which will be in the description down below underneath the episode. And if you're feeling generous, of course, as I said earlier, please consider subscribing to Full Enrich's YouTube channel. Anyways, let's get on with the rest of the episode. >> Perfect. And I hear you mention Claude Code straight away there. So, the first kind of elephant in the room question that I must ask is how did Claude Code change your use of Clay? Because I know previously you have been relatively closely associated with Clay as well. And what what is your tech stack right now when it comes to all of the go-to-market stuff that you're executing right now on your side? >> Well, it's important to begin at the beginning with Clay, because a lot of people get it totally wrong online about "Oh, they're overnight they were success." And people want to build these Clay killers. And so, I have been go-to-market advisor, investor in them since 2020. And the thing that Clay did, and this was, you know, when did when did 2023, 2024 GPT came out? Um >> Mhm. >> ChatGPT. And so, this was before all of that. And the reason that And Clay lang- languished in obscurity for 4 years. Kareem had just been building and building and building and building. And I was one of the first people to kind of recognize Ooh, this tool can let me do things that I previously had to hire an engineer to do. And the concept of go-to-market engineering been around way before Clay. I mean, Drift was doing a lot of this, Gorgeous, the the team there was doing a lot of this programmatic outbound. Um there's just a lot of really interesting stuff that people were doing when you just had to hire engineers to do it. And at that time, so many people were promoting, people like me were promoting Clay not because Clay was the best tool around. We did it because we could showcase our imagination, and Clay was the best tool to showcase what we wanted to build. And you can't really showcase what a bunch of engineers have built for you. And at the time, they had a great tool that and they still do where you could basically run programmatic Google searches. So you could do, you know, the poor man's Agentyc version of this really, really well. And you could bring your own API key, so it was very cheap, so you could find out does a company have a pricing page, how many how many pricing pages do they have, or how many support pages do they have. You could ask these types of questions before the Agentyc era. And so, that's why Clay caught on because people showed their own imagination in the tool. So, I was one of the first people to do that. Now, as time went on, there are always new tools, and I I always use the best tool for the job. So, I don't ever associate myself and say, "I'm always going to use this tool no matter what." It's like if this is the best tool for the the job, I will use it. So, when Cloud Code, I think I started using Cloud Code in November or something, and it's been around for I mean, I think it's like over 2 years old now. It's been around for a while. Mhm. Uh but sort of around that time frame, sometime between September and January, the tool became so powerful. And you could kind of ask it anything, and Cloud Code in the terminal specifically, and having to use UX is now awful to me. I don't 100% of my job is just talking. So, Clay became less a central part of my stack. And And by the way, that is not to say that it is not a very valuable tool. It's just that I designed my agency around 100x speed. And I said, "What can I If I was able to ship at 100x, what would I do?" And so, I'm not doing things like I'm not writing to the CRM. So, I'm not I'm not like, "Hey, just update the whole CRM Clay code." Like, that would be a ridiculous thing to do. It's dangerous. Like, it just Clay code makes mistakes and you you can't ship operational workflows like that. So, I specifically spent more time in Clay code because Clay didn't have the capability to meet the tool the other my other tool stack Clay code where it's at. That actually is changing this week um and I've started to basically be able to build uh more workflows in Clay. The Clay gen is an absolutely excellent feature. So, um So, what my stack looks like today, uh most of my stack looks like Clay code plus a bunch of really trusted APIs. Uh you'd mentioned the podcast is sponsored by FullEnrich. I am an investor advisor there and and more importantly than any of those tags, I am a user. And I don't I I'm always interested in finding the best tool for the job today. And uh I have tested FullEnrich versus a bunch of other providers. The data quality is just better. So, FullEnrich is one that I use. I use the Blitz API. I love the Blitz API. >> I've heard so many good things from like agency people especially. Do you want to shed a bit more light on Blitz API? We'll have it on the screen now their website just for people to see you know, their pricing page and that kind of thing in case. But, do you want to give a bit of insight on that? >> Yeah. >> Yeah, so it's somewhere between $300 and a month for basically unlimited enrichment of company profiles and people. They have an ICP waterfall thing. So, if you're targeting, you know, titles The titles that we have in our heads are a poor representation of titles in the market. Like, you'll see you know, now all the SDRs are calling themselves like GTM. Like, just GTM. So, an SDR is GTM, but you can see their past jobs were GTM or or or SDR. So, it's like, okay, they're just like calling themselves a funny name because they think they'll get better responses, which is probably true actually. So, so really what you want to do is because it is now so inexpensive, you don't want to just rely on title targeting. You want to say, "Give me anyone with this wide birth of titles, and then I'm going to go disqualify them." So, like I'm doing an event with GTM Shift on I think the 22nd of July in San Francisco, and they want to run events in Chicago and Austin and and San Diego. So, I said, "Go pull me everyone that has any sales and marketing title in these cities, and go sort them by relevance to me." And so, Blitz is the tool that I use to do that because I don't pay any marginal price for pulling more profiles and pulling more companies. I'm just rate limited on how fast I can hit the API. And so, I think that more you're going to see the shift where data is going to get cheaper and cheaper, and I think Blitz is kind of leading the leading the charge there. And I will say that there are a handful of other tools that I use. I use Exa Parallels for agentic search. So, if I want to I'll never use Claude or OpenAI's models for doing search. They're just not great. And kind of Exa Parallels and honestly the Clay agent are sort of the best search platforms that exist for agentic search. So, I will use those. I will I'll use a tool called Open Web Ninja. They're fantastic. So, they have like a Google Maps endpoint and a like go find all the emails on this website endpoint. But, the kind of the the the primitive that I've just built recently is called the Crawford, which Jeremy Ross, shout out to you, he said I should have called it the Clawford agent, which is of course a better name. Shame on me for not not finding that. But, um, but is an agent that is designed around cost per right answer. So, do you remember the M1 series chips when Apple released those? >> Yeah. Mhm. >> Yeah. So, Apple was not saying these are the most powerful chips in the world. They're saying per watt, these are the most powerful chips in the world. So, based on power consumption, these are the best chips in the world. So, I built an agent with access to 316 government data sources that will go pull in information first that it it has a free ladder. And only after the free ladder, it gets more and more expensive. It pays more money to get right answers and it checks itself. So, more than anything now, the I am I'm using a harness around all these APIs and the single guiding principle is like what's the lowest possible dollar amount I can spend for a right answer. So, that's the kind of harness that I built to be able to get answers for my clients so that I don't have to spend money and I can get as good of coverage as possible. >> Yeah, and then I mentioned Exa and Parallel. I played around with them separately. If you walk through the difference between I think because most most of the audience would be familiar with Claygent, which is obviously Clay's AI web researcher. In terms of use cases and functionality, are there any specific tasks that you will trust Claygent versus like a different use case for Exa versus a different use case for Parallel? Or would you say they're somewhat interchangeable in terms of the use cases uh between those tools? >> Well, up until I think actually maybe tomorrow um, uh uh when we're recording this at least, uh uh you haven't been able to programmatically access the Claygent. And so, every Claygent run, even though it kind of has been the gold standard of go-to-market research, like honestly it's just the best, you had to manually go in and edit prompts and change things yourself. And that tax wasn't worth the improvement in quality to me. So, let's like talk about these things separately. >> I see. >> So, I I think about Parallels and Exa as like somewhat interchangeable. There are There are things that like Parallels has built a tool that does entity resolution. So, give me a company name and find me a domain. And Axon has in a bunch of people index. So, Axon has this thing called Websets, which is a really novel way to find people because generally when you're searching people, we have been confined by the filters of our past, which is head count. And I always joke that, you know, people's ICP almost everyone in the world has an ICP with some head count band, 50 to 200. Do you think that someone wakes up like some CEO wakes up and they hired their 201st person and like everything needs to change around here. We're out of ICP band. We're going to change the way we're doing all of our accounting and because we were a different I see, you know, it's like this ridiculous, right? So, you wouldn't ever want to target that way. You want to target by things like like one of my customers was saying, I said, "Who do you want to target?" I said, "We want to target procurement people, but only procurement people that stay in seat for 2 years or less and move on to their next job because they're driving innovation. If you've been in procurement for 25 years, you're not using a new tool." So, that's how you want to target. And Axon you can ask that question and it will like basically it has a 800 million profiles or something. It can it use embeddings to sort all these people and say, "Give me procurement people that meet these seven criteria." And Axon can go sort the world that way. So, it's really cool to be able I generally do enumeration, so go find everyone and then filter down. Axon has other tools that can do the inverse, which is like use their system to go do filtering. So, those are the These agentic searches are designed around the problems that we are we all struggle with in in go-to-market. Who's What is this person's business profile URL? What is their email? What is their phone number? And they're trying to get better at these very specific use cases. Um and so I I am agnostic in terms of the agents that I use and I let my agent determine which tool to use uh based on the job at hand. Um so that that's kind of I'll outsource a lot of that to Claude. And from a cost perspective, they're all so cheap for for answers. It's like for most of what I do, any given engagement, I probably spend less than with the exception of of cell phone numbers, which is absolutely worth the cost. I spend less than $500 on enriching an entire TAM. May- maybe $500 or $1,000. It's pretty inexpensive. >> Wow, that's very good. I was going to say as well on top of that, I remember getting an email from you. Um I think that's correct. Where you said something like, "Oh, you were supposed to pay like a $100,000 bill." And uh for like I think it was like uh Anthropic API or something of that sort. And then you realized it was in tokens, right? Or so so or that that was the amount of tokens that you spent. Do you want to walk through that because I think that's one of those >> Yeah. >> nightmares that, you know, could happen to pretty much anyone listening to this today. >> I actually emailed Dario Amodei. And I was like, "You got to help me." So I basically in a lot of my engagements, I'll use my customers' Claude code accounts and their own tools. So I'll say, "Yo, you got to go buy FullEnrich, you know, we have a discounted rate. Go buy from them directly. You have to go buy these tools. Go buy from them directly. And I need access to your Anthropic API key." And I'm blind to how these companies set this stuff up. So what I did is I was using some enrichment here to I basically used a bunch of sub agents. And one of the things I was doing is I wanted to quantify the AI impact I was having. So I pulled down every single prompt that everyone had ever submitted to the company, which you can do via their API. I pulled down cost. And so I built a dashboard that says like, "Who are the most innovative people at the company that are using AI? What are they prompting it with? What are the common use cases? And as part of that, they have a spend API. And so I queried my client spend API and it said, "You have And I and I specifically asked about like my user cuz I have to off to access their tokens and and he said, "Well, you spent $67,000 in the last 3 months." I was like, "I definitely did not get that approved." >> [laughter] >> And so and you hear all these horror stories of like Uber spending their entire cloud code budget in a month, you know, that they had for a year or something. And I was like freaking out and freaking out and I was like, "Okay, well, what did I do and how did you know it was me?" And so I spent some time cloud data and as I was digging into it, it turns out that that API reported cents, not dollars. So it was like $600 that I had spent over the course of 6 months, which was and also that fortunately my client had spend caps set already. So and I specifically said to them like, "Please, do not give me unlimited spend. Like I will for sure accidentally spend this." So I think that this is why I think always about what's the cost for a right answer and I don't just reach for, you know, what's the most expensive model. I'm like, I care about right answers and I care about expensive models analyzing cheap programmatic answers uh to see only if I need to escalate to like a full AI agent to go find answers. And I'll just give you one example of that. I have a technology finder skill on a run a sub stack called on the edge. And I have a technology finder skill that what it does is it will download a whole ton's worth of websites locally on your machine and just use code to search for patterns. So you want to figure out what is this Does this company use a scheduling tool? We'll We'll look for all the variations of book, schedule. You know, there's there's I don't know, five or 10 of those. And then it will go look at all those links and just use patterns to identify them. So you just need one or two agents to go take that HTML and then it can write scripts. And you know what? You can download about 80% of a market. For the rest of the 20%, you need to go through a tool like Apify to be able to download like Cloudflare protected websites. But for 80% of the market, you can just download their full website locally, man. Analyze it with code. So, there's no reason to go do anything that cost a bunch of money when you can basically use a lot of free tools to to get the answers that you need. >> Yeah. I think it's I think the real aha kind of moment with Claude Coda, at the very least for me, was when you just input a given website URL and you can obviously rebuild inside of Claude Coda pretty fast and it will look like UX-wise pretty much the same. You can just whack your own logo to it. So, that's for sure a big talking point. I heard you mention a tool with the word ninja inside of it. I'm not I'm not sure I caught up onto the name, but if you want to talk about that one as well because that was not a tech stack that I've heard of so far. >> Yeah, so actually there's two tools that I didn't I didn't really talk about. So, one is called Open Web Ninja um and it is You know, it's so funny. There's always this moment of like, should I promote this tool? Because every time I promote it, the cost goes up. >> [laughter] >> It's like more people end up using it. >> You're a good investor and advisor to have as well for them. So, if they're on the lookout for >> I know. I know. I know. I can't They're Their CEO won't talk to me. I don't know why. He's like, I'm traveling in Europe or something. It's like, good. I'm glad. Um so, they just have a bunch of these really inexpensive It's an API application protocol interface, I think, to be able to talk to a computer and have the computer go do things for you. And let's talk about this difference because it might not be obvious obvious to the audience. If you have an agent do something, it's pulling it it can call tools. It can call like what a tool is like search the web. That's a tool that it has. Or another tool might be go pull information from like a local file. That's a tool. And so, the best way to give your agent tools, which is like arms, is to give it APIs that already have information structured. So, if I were to ask vanilla Claude code, go get go find every Google review of this business, it would not be able to do that. It basically is going to go to the web, it's going to do what you would do as a human. It would it might click on a couple things, it might copy and and Claude will confidently be like, it's done. But, it will not do that. This is where APIs are helpful because you can say, here's an API and Open Web Ninja is one of these things where you can go get Google reviews. Run an API call and find this business and get all of their Google reviews. And so, what it's going to do is it is just going to send programmatic request, right? This is not agentic, this is this is how you've been able to talk to computers for a very long time. It's just that only engineers have been able to do this. Go get me every Google review for this business and save it locally. And that's like a case where APIs are very helpful. And Open Web Ninja like has everything from real-time Amazon data to like events, news, uh job salary information. You can go look at Yelp business data, Walmart data, video search. And the ones that I primarily use are like go find all the social links for this company. Go find all the contact, scrape all the contacts on this webpage. Local business data, so that they will go pull from data from Google and other places, which often has the owner's name. Uh go search for an email on the web. structured a lot of this so that you can basically ask these very uh strict questions. And then, I use Apify a lot. They're a great tool that is basically a generic scraper for the web. So, they have all these things called residential proxies. So, if you want to view, I talked about the 20%. If you're downloading a temp, 20% Cloudflare will see that my IP, my computer, when it's going and accessing Cloudflare says, I've seen a lot of your IP on dentist websites. I think that you're a robot. And Cloudflare would be right. And so, tools like Apify can basically get around that because they will go visit the website from different res what I call what I call residential IP. So, different households around the whole world. Um and that's how you can get that other 20% and they have a bunch of built-in tools that other people have made to go scrape any part of the web. So, there's a specific scraper for some obscure database somewhere or some list of sites. So, those are other tools that I will use pretty happily. >> Yeah, I've seen with Octoparse, uh they can even scrape the kind of database that you would not think of like ocean.io and their stack and I don't really know how they get around the TNTs of these platforms because, you know, that these are the kind of platforms that, you know, you would think it's not really ethical, nor legal, uh nor compliance to really scrape them. >> Well, like let's talk about that um because I think there's an important distinction here. I think that companies want to have it both ways. They want consumers to be able to access their information and they get a lot of benefit from this. I had a great conversation with someone at SimilarWeb and I said, "Hey, you put a lot of really good data on the web. Are you, you know, what are your thoughts on this being scraped?" He said something very interesting. He's like, "Most of our best data is not there at all. You don't see it at all." And so, this is a lead generation magnet for them. ZoomInfo too. ZoomInfo has all these company pages. So, you look up what is Apple's revenue? Well, you end up landing on a ZoomInfo page and ZoomInfo benefits from that. And what companies would like to do is they would like to say, "Well, you can't scrape this." It's like, "Well, the Supreme Court, at least here in the United States, has basically ruled that if it is a public site not behind a login URL, which is really key, you can scrape it um because that's them saying this is open to the world and you can't determine you can't basically differentiate between a person and a robot there. You know, like Octoparse has a tool that scrapes uh a realtor sites and that's like immensely helpful because then you and I I built a I built a tool a long time ago where I scraped new listings and I analyzed all of the images and looked for who had who which homes needed the most electrical work. So, you could basically go figure out, you know, for electricians, what are the new homes that you should go sell to that need the most amount of work. So, being able to structure the public web. And by the way, talk about illegal, uh OpenAI and Anthropic have built their entire business of scrap on scraping the web. >> That's really cool. Well, Jordan, just to wrap up the episode, do you just want to share with the audience where they can go to read more um from your Substack, where they can find you, and where they can tune into your content in the future as well? >> yeah, sure. Um so, you can go to edge.blueprintgtm.com, or you can go to jordancrawford.com, and you can find my two links. So, on the Edge, LinkedIn, and uh yeah, that's where you can find me. >> Absolutely. That will be all popping up on the screen. You will all be linked underneath the video. The guide will be the second link in the description down below. Thank you so much for tuning in, guys. Thank you so much, Jordan, for attending. Have a good one, and I'll make sure to send you a follow-up note as soon as I escape this heat wave. But yeah, have a good one. >> Thanks, you. >> Ciao, see you. >> care. Bye. All the best.