Why do we become mediocre? The first one is deniability. What we end up with is saying I am attached to coming up with an idea that everyone is going to love, being reassured that nothing bad is going to happen. If I can be guaranteed those two things, then I'll go do it. And that's why most people would rather be mediocre. >> My guest today is Seth Godin. [music] You're going to hear how Seth survived 800 rejection letters in a single year, and that led him to now writing 21 books, multiple best sellers. We're going to steal his self-belief so that you can use it for yourself today. >> Winners are actually quitters, as long as it's strategic quitting. >> Quitting isn't failing. What's failing is sticking with something that's not working and not making me happy. Quitting is a chance to invest in the thing that I ought to be doing next. >> Is there like one single belief that helps to cure mediocrity in most people? >> Well, I have a mantra, which is >> I want to talk about your insane work ethic, which I've admired for so many years. You've published a blog post every single day for I believe 26 years, often two to three times a day. That's as like some public math, 10,000 posts, maybe more than 3 million words. It kind of puts you among like the most prolific creators, I think, of all time. Picasso, you know, Casey Neistat with his millions of videos, if you want to go a little bit more more common, Beeple, 17 years of daily art. I guess my first question is, what does hitting publish every single day teach you, and why do you do that? >> I don't think of a work ethic being like this. I have a craft ethic. I have a posture of sharing the work cuz I think it's worthwhile. And the thing is, I made a decision once, and then I don't have to make it again. So, there's going to be a blog post for me tomorrow, not cuz it's the best blog post I ever wrote, but because it's Thursday. And that changes everything, cuz if you know there's going to be a blog post tomorrow, when you go to sleep tonight, that's what you're going to be thinking about. Habits create who we are. And what I found was re-litigating each decision was enervating, was undermining me. But if I can show up and say, "This is my craft. Here, I made this." then it becomes who I want to be. >> Yeah. Like I I I guess let's say there's somebody listening right now, and this somebody could be me on many days. But, you know, when you don't want to do something, like you have that deep in your veins, please, like I would rather do anything else in the world except the thing I know I need to do. What would you tell them, or what do you tell yourself? >> Well, I think it's helpful to break it into pieces, right? Is it common for you to not want to do the thing you have to do? Cuz if that's the case, then it's not the thing, it's the have to part that you're right? That people will go on vacation and do things that they just paid a lot of money to do that are supposed to be fun, but if that was their job, they would hate it. So, that's part of what's going on here. And we can talk about what are the trades we make to solve problems, what are the trades we make to create the thing we want to build. Or it could be that you're in engaging with something toxic. And there's something in your system that's saying, "Don't do that." And I had a young friend who took karate lessons. And after 3 weeks, he said, "They yell at me and they hit me." Now, some people think that's fine. He did not. Don't take karate lessons. Right? If it's making you sick to negotiate to win in certain settings, small claims court or whatever it is, then don't, because you only get tomorrow once. You don't even get get a chance to do it over again. We have more freedom than we want to admit. So, how are you going to spend the resources you've got and what are you going to get in return? >> It's really good because you've also talked about like there's a couple of quotes from one of your last books. I think it was The Dip. Where it's you talk about most people are afraid to quit and that and you say winners are actually quitters as long as it's strategic quitting. When do you know whether to quit or not and what does that mean? >> So, you've talked about this a lot in in podcasts and books and things. The you're not wearing a tutu even though you took ballet lessons when you were six. And you're not still wearing your Boy Scout uniform even though you were in the Boy Scouts. You've quit things many times in your life. Everyone listening to this. But the whole Vince Lombardi nonsense of winners never quit makes absolutely no sense. That what we need to do before we start a project is realize there's going to be a hard part. That's why it's worth doing. Never quit at the hard part. Either quit before you start or quit after the hard part. But see that the hard part is coming. All right, with that said, then we look at our life, our future, our assets and we say based on who I am and where I am and the way the world is, ignoring the sunk costs, ignoring how much it cost me to get here, if I was going to make a new decision today, what makes sense to me? Right? So, in the case of my blog, I could quit my blog anytime I want. The fact that I've done 10,000 blog posts is a gift from the old me. I don't have to accept the gift. I can say, "No, thank you. That's not serving me anymore." And being willing to forgive that past self, refuse that past gift and say, "Quitting isn't failing. What's failing is sticking with something that's not working and not making me happy. Quitting is a chance to invest in the thing that I ought to be doing next." >> Yeah. You know, it's interesting because that idea of not quitting at the hard part is so crucial because on the other hand of having every right to quit when you want to, you have also, I believe you got 800 rejection letters from book publishers over over Yeah, in one year. Eight 800 That's like impressive almost. Now you've written 21 best-selling books? >> Yeah. >> And so, you know, I guess my question there is like what do you tell yourself to keep going when you've got a bruised ego and you want to give up? >> Yeah. Well, so many people who are listening or watching to this try really hard and are on the edge of hustling. Mhm. I don't like hustling and I want to explain what I mean by hustling and about the letters because this whole rejection Olympics thing and keep hassling people until they say yes, that's not what this is about. What happened 800 times in a row is someone in New York publishing bought a stamp, put it on an envelope, and mailed me a letter that said no. That's a big thing that they had to do to reject me. The thing was two. One, it's their job to look at book proposals. I wasn't spamming people. I wasn't hassling people. If I people like me didn't exist, they would be out of work. It's their job. And number two, my rejections kept getting better. That the beginning first few were no. By the time 6 months had rolled around, it was this isn't going to work for us right now, but would you consider doing something like this? That people saw that I was listening and I was there to serve them. So this is a key distinction. You're not asking for a favor when you're selling something. You're not asking for a favor when you engage with someone. You are offering them something. And if they you're not offering people something of value, listen to them and go build a thing that is actually valuable for them cuz it's got to be voluntary or it's not going to work. >> That's such a great point because today's world there is a lot of uh rejection porn that basically, "Oh, I you know, I pitched a thousand investors and they all said no." But the part that they leave out is when why you get the yes is the iteration. >> Right. >> Right? It's no, I listened to you. We had a conversation even though it was mostly in my head and I took your feedback. I implemented I got better. So by the end of the thousand it wasn't they all suck, it was I got better. Is that right? >> Yeah, and it doesn't have to be interacting with the same person over and over again. You learn so much from all the people who walked by your store and didn't come in that you changed the window. And as soon as you changed the window someone came in and said, "Oh, I should do that more." So we get what we measure. And the feedback loops are super important because if you're measuring the wrong thing. So if you go to the gym and you see someone on one of the Stairmasters and they put their hands on the side rails and to lift their weight up, why did they do that? It hurts your back. It doesn't give you a good workout cuz it makes the little number on the Stairmaster go up. That's the only reason. Is that why you went to the gym? To make the number on the Stairmaster go up? Cuz if so, you succeeded. When we measure things that don't matter. If we're busy counting calories but not losing weight, did we count calories cuz we like counting calories or did we just learn something about our metabolism and maybe we're counting the wrong thing? So if you want to get funded and people who care enough to listen to you are saying no, can you imagine why they might be right? The answer they're an idiot is not acceptable. Why might they be right to reject me? Cuz everyone who makes a decision is correct based on who they are, what they believe, what they want, and what they heard from you. Every single time they are correct. And if you want a different answer, you need to tell a different story and create different conditions for that to happen. >> That's a great point, and really counterintuitive to what we actually think in our head. >> Right. >> Because typically rejection's painful, so you build up a little armor of no's, and then you get on the defensive about why they're the idiot. >> Right. >> But I I love that because you say actually that feedback loops are the secret to improvement. And so, breaking this down practically, how could I listening today take a feedback loop and make my life better? Which I loved you had in the book, your most recent book The Knot. There's a lot about feedback loops in there and how important they are. So, can you tell us tactically, how would you use a feedback loop to get better every time? >> The first thing I would say is who gave you the feedback loop you're using. Who's benefiting from that? Mark Zuckerberg? Cuz Mark Zuckerberg wants you to have a feedback loop of likes and what people are saying about you in the comments. Because if he can get you hooked on that, you will work for free and his advertisers will have something to buy. Right? If you're on YouTube, is the feedback loop the number of views cuz the easiest way to get a lot of views is to do something horrible and it'll attract a crowd. Is that why you're here? Well, that's what YouTube would like you to measure. That's why they made the number easy. And so, when you know, I I give advice to friends who are authors and like, "All right, but I want to make the best seller list." Why? Like, what would it mean to be on the New York Times best seller list? Cuz I can tell you how to do it for $65,000. There are people who have to books on there, paid money to game their way onto it. Is that what you want? What do you get if that happens? So, let's get very clear about what we get for when we put in the effort to do something. Cuz that's what when we're solving a problem, what we're doing is we're making an exchange. We're leaning in, doing effort, and getting something in return. But if you're measuring what's easy, if you're measuring what your friends are measuring, then you're going to get stuck. So, I live north of New York City, and when we used to go to the movies, I noticed it. Many of the teenagers looked the same. This was before the internet. Like, how did they know how to dress? And if I finally figured out, they all look like Barbie. And that was their method of saying I'm an insider. But when we talk to kids in high school, they're all unhappy. >> Mhm. >> So the thing they're measuring, which is how can I hang out with the the cool kids and look all the same, is actually not the thing that's getting them what they want. But it's super easy and there's all this pressure to measure the wrong thing. So where I began is, let's get clear about who it's for and what's it for. And what are we going to get out of this? And then how do we measure more of that? >> Seems like it's taking a lot of mental pauses to ponder, which is not that normal. And actually asking yourself, is this a mimetic desire that I have because somebody else has it, or is this like a deep desire? >> Right. >> And so what I want to talk a lot about today is getting unstuck, cuz I see a lot of people in their way. And I think this book is a guidebook for that. But maybe I'd ask one more question first about how can you tell if a desire that you have is yours or somebody else's? Because you have so many things that are quote unquote weird for for normal life. You have a lot of boundaries that you put on that would be against normal success. So maybe you could teach us how to do that. >> Two words. High school. >> Mhm. >> When in doubt, look at high school. >> Mhm. >> High school is where we got indoctrinated. Indoctrinated to get a job at a famous company. Indoctrinated to do what the boss says. Indoctrinated to say, "Will this be on the test?" Over and over and over again. The hierarchies, the status, the affiliation, it's about high school. And if high school life is making you happy as an adult, please don't change it in any way. But if you find that you are rehearsing those indoctrinations, it could very well be that someone else is benefiting from that, the local insurance company, the local real estate broker, whatever, whatever, cuz you're fitting in all the way, and not you. And yeah, it takes a lot of guts to take a deep breath and say, "No, no, no. That isn't giving me joy. And I'm going to pay attention to what these people think of me, and I'm going to ignore those people." And when we were talking about rejection, one of the most powerful things an entrepreneur, a salesperson, a creator, an artist has is a simple sentence, which is "Thank you, it's not for you." It might be for somebody. You should make something for somebody, but if someone rejects you because they are left-handed and you're making right-handed scissors, you don't try to persuade them to become right-handed. You say, "Thank you, but it's not for you." And this is what a successful stand-up comic does. They don't fly to Italy and yell at people who don't speak English. They want to work a room with people who are there to hear them. So, let's take a deep breath and say, "All right, what is important to me, and why is it important, and how much of this is about high school, and how much is this about becoming the person I want to be?" >> It's interesting. Right now, I think even in what what I do, I think about this a lot because when you have a a lot of attention on the internet, um you can get really caught into mass people-pleasing, you know? And and I hear this a lot from from people who work for me. Like, I'm a people-pleaser. Seems to be a common thing that people say. And one of the tools that you have, I think, to get out of the way of if you are a people-pleaser, is personal statements. I loved your framework for how you think about personal statements. And I'm curious, how would you start writing a personal statement, which seems to be a way to get unstuck and to make sure you're not stuck on something you shouldn't even be doing in the first place? >> Yeah. So, mission statements, elevator pitches, what a waste. No one ever bought anything on an elevator. You don't need an elevator pitch. >> It's true. >> And if you look at giant corporations, their mission statements are all interchangeable and they mean nothing. And they're hiding the truth. And the truth is we're here to make money. And all you got to do is like look at a drug company. Which drugs did they bring out? Which ones did they not bring out? It has nothing to do with their mission statement. It has to do with what made the bosses money. So, be honest about it. And now we can make decisions. So, purpose is what's the one thing? What's the one thing I'm trading my time for right now? What's the one thing I'm taking risk for right now? The one thing if it happened that would be good. And it's a trap to say money. Because yes, you need enough. Enough might be a very big number. But all money is is a tradeable thing, a code, a number, a rank. Money itself isn't why you're doing anything. Once you have enough. So, what is it? Who are you trying to please? Who are you listening to? You know, I was walking on Columbus Avenue on the Upper West Side. This was only 10 years ago, so I was 50-something. And as I'm walking, there's a small playground there. And I hear some 7-year-old taunting some other kid. Like really taunting in an angry sing-song voice. And I looked over to see if the other kid was okay. And I realized the 7-year-old was making fun of me. He was harassing me cuz I was bald. He was harassing me. And I got to tell you for like 3 minutes after that I felt bad. I felt like oh, how did I let this person down? What What did I do wrong? Should I have been wearing a hat? And then I went wait. Number one, he's 7. Number two, I don't know him. Number three, I didn't make any promises to him that I haven't kept. I forgive you. You're You're going up to be a bully and I can't fix that. But, how do I insulate myself? My blog has no comments. I don't know the stats of my blog. I don't know how many people read my blog. I don't know how many books I sell. Why? Cuz nothing about that would make my life better. I haven't read a review of my books on Amazon in 10 years. >> That's crazy. >> Because tell me the truth, you're an author. >> Yeah. >> Did reading the reviews make your next book better? >> No. [laughter] >> Right, of course not. And are you going to write the first book again? No. So, why are you reading the reviews? You're reading the reviews cuz of high school. That what you're doing is going back to their people talking about me behind my back in the ladies room. I can go listen to what they're saying. Is that helping you? And so, you know, the mindset of turning your life into an art project where you are creating generous work for other people, if you're generous enough, you're going to get paid. And where you're keeping track of what works for you, and ignoring relentlessly ignoring what doesn't work. That's not easy, but you only have to decide once. That's where your purpose statement comes in, which is to say, "Oh, thank you for that feedback, but I'm looking and you're not on the list of people I care about feedback from. Have a great day." >> That's so true. I was literally going to tell you earlier how proud I was of all the reviews we got for the book. So, that is actually hysterical. >> [laughter] >> Uh but you're right. It actually didn't make the second book better. And I think a lot of people in life, you know, if you just do performance art as opposed to art, that can that can wear on you pretty quickly. But the other side that you talk about a lot in the book and sort of overall in all of your work is idea of mediocrity. >> Mhm. >> And you refer to uh the four horsemen of mediocrity as deniability, helplessness, contempt, fear. And so, I'm curious. One, tell me about the four horsemen. And then two, how can we figure out which one of those is crippling us? >> Right. All right, first first let me the word mediocre just means average. And there two kinds of mediocrity and compromise. And so let's I want to talk about compromise first because compromise isn't exactly the same thing. If you are an architect and you have a client and you bring your perfect building to them and they ask you to make changes to it so it will work better for their business, that's a useful compromise. That's a powerful compromise. On the other hand, if you bring an idea to someone who doesn't want to change, who doesn't want to they will insist that you sand out all the edges and make it banal, that's a bad kind of compromise. That's the kind of mediocre we're avoiding, right? To make it so that every single human doesn't notice us so we don't get criticized. All right, so then we got indoctrinated, we got a job. Why do we become mediocre? The first one is deniability. Deniability means you don't have to put your name on it cuz it's what everyone else was doing. And this one is super common, right? The next one is this idea of contempt, which is I don't care that much about my job. I don't care about that much about my customers. It's just not worth it. Anytime you hear someone say, "I'm just doing my job." it's cuz their bosses burned any relationship they have with what they're doing. It's not their fault. They're in a system that doesn't want to reward what they're doing, right? And we can go down a list of many other ones, but what we end up with is saying I am attached to coming up with an idea that everyone is going to love and to being reassured that nothing bad is going to happen. If I can be guaranteed those two things, then I'll go do it. And that's why most people would rather be mediocre. Most people would rather stay in the middle cuz those guarantees are not on the table. And when we see someone do a live act, the odds that this is going to be the best performance they ever gave are zero. You can't have the best one you ever gave unless you have some that aren't the best ones. You have to be okay with that, or else you're just going to phone it in. You have to make these choices. Is the work I'm doing generous enough? So, when you I talk to emergency room doctors, surgeons, how can you do this after the first patient died? How do you go back to work? And the answer is because someone is going to go and help this person. Is it always going to work? No, but that's the price. The price we pay to show up to help people is sometimes it's not going to work and the fatal consequences. You and I don't have to deal with that. Right? What a treat then. We get to do something I get to do a blog post. It's might be the worst blog post of the year. Maybe even of the decade. It's not fatal. I'll be back tomorrow. >> You are arrogant, you are lazy, and you're stupid. If you're sitting there and you cannot afford super cars, you're one of those three. >> [music] >> You should work 84 hours a week. No family, no kids, no girlfriend. Every day you wake up, the only thing that should be on your mind is money. >> That's not what being rich looks like. [music] Jeff Bezos is worth $257 billion because of Amazon. He drinks coffee and reads the newspaper in the morning. Tim Cook earned $74.3 [music] million at Apple last year. He turns his phone off to go to the gym. Berkshire Hathaway is worth [music] $1.3 trillion. Warren Buffett founded it with his best friend. You don't have to wake up at 3:00 [music] a.m. every day. You don't have to give up your life, and you definitely don't have to do it alone. The goal was never a business you run. It's a business that runs without you. It's time to take back control of your business and your life. [music] Come do it with me on September 18th. I'll see you there. I feel like when you can when you can diagnose what you're doing, it's so much easier to fix it. And half the time we know that something's wrong, but we can't diagnose what it is, why it's happening. And so, it's not just that we're stuck and we're lazy and whatever. It's It's we actually just haven't been able to figure out what the disease is. So, we're trying all the vitamins and you know, don't realize ah, it's actually just get outside, get some sun, take a walk. You don't need a vitamin. And so, um I really like this. I think I don't know if this is too particular of a question. But is there like one single belief that helps to cure mediocrity in most people? Like if you believe in this, you can cure this desire to just play it safe and be mediocre? >> Well, I have a mantra, which is work that matters for people who care. And it has two parts. You have to start with the second part. Only for people who care. You have to ignore the people who don't care. All right. Among the people who care, what would matter to them? Can I do something that would matter to them? So, let's say you have a job in a big company and you're feeling stuck. And I can talk about why that might be, but you say I don't have any agency, I don't have any freedom. I just have to do what they tell me to. And I ask you the following. Would you get fired for starting a book group once a week over lunch on Fridays? Six people. Probably wouldn't get fired for that. Could you pick five people who would really like to be in that group? If you organize that group, would your life get better? Work that matters for people who care. Because guess what happens? After the book group's working really well, the next time they need a little project done, they'll ask you if you want to do it cuz you just demonstrated you could make this thing work. And then the next thing. And then the next thing. That we get freedom by using the agency we deny we have well so that the people around us will give us more. >> It's really precious in this day and age kind of with how society is and the infrastructure and you have a quote that I love from your blog which is the industrial age brought compliance and compliance brought fear and fear brought us mediocrity. >> [sighs and gasps] >> What do you mean by this? And what can we do about this? >> So what's the industrial system? If you have a car the reason it doesn't cost $6 million is cuz it's not made by hand. It has interchangeable parts. It was made in a factory. And the fact is you can go get a you know a little wireless lab now for $99 that should cost a million dollars but it's made in a factory. Factories are about repetitiveness and they are about compliance. So we had to build public school. You can look in the public the history of public school. Public school was built by factory owners to train people to do what they were told. And the way we get people to do that is we give them prizes, weekly salary, and then we threaten them with punishment, fear. Do what I say or you're out the door. And so you're on the assembly line faster and faster and faster repeating what you did yesterday. An assembly line doesn't have to like Charlie Chaplin putting together a car. If you're doing insurance claims, you're on the assembly line. And there's one reason why AI is freaking so many people out cuz AI is eager to go into the assembly line doing the same thing over and over again. So we got factories that create value and then we got fear as the the weapon that they use which leads to compliance. And compliance is all about how do I fit in the middle so they don't notice me. And that cycle built our culture. It made us all the richest people in the history of the world but it also created all sorts of pain and suffering cuz that's not what human beings were born to do. >> It's interesting. It makes me think of leaders versus managers. >> Mhm. >> Um you know, I'm a leader at our company and I've been a manager at other people's company before and it is actually quite hard even as a leader, I think, to not fall into the salary plus you could potentially get fired trap. You know, it's not only like when you are subjugated to it, you're part of the system. You then become that type of leader and you almost have to fight, I feel like your inherent desire to just be complied with and have people do what you want them to do as a leader. And so you draw really important distinctions between managers and leaders. What makes the difference between a manager and a leader? >> So, you are uh the leader of your company, but lots of companies don't have a leader, they have a manager. They're not the same thing. Managers use power and authority to get people to do a job they know can be done. So, we need managers at hotels, at fast food restaurants. Someone to make sure that the subway's running on time, that's management. Leadership is voluntary. You can't require people to follow you as a leader cuz if you do, you're a manager. Leadership is I'm going over there, who wants to come? Leadership is this might not work. So, in your career as an independent thinker and writer and podcaster and investor, you have done many, many things that weren't in the playbook. And your value add is not that you are a boring manager who does Goldman is filled with people like that. Your value add is you are willing to go to a frontier and do things that might not work. And so, people choose to follow you. And so, if you are running a business where management is important, you're going to have to figure out how to run an industrial business where you get people to comply. I'm glad the pacemaker company, if you have a pacemaker, has six sigma with compliance. It's not like, oh, we did our best, but it was Thursday. No, they they really nailed it down. But if you want change to happen, you're going to need to lead. And you do that by creating the conditions for enrollment, creating the conditions for possibility, so that people choose to go on this journey. And then, when it's time for the business to be managed, you should probably sell it. >> Interesting. You you have a saying, "Managers want authority, leaders want responsibility." My question is, what is the first step you can take to become a leader and not a manager? >> The most important thing is to lead yourself. And we have a lot of trouble with that. And what The Not is about is you know, many of my books have been how do you get other people to change their mind. This is about how to get yourself to change your mind. And how do you figure out how to be more curious? How do you figure out how to be more resilient? How do you figure out how to measure what matters? Cuz once you start doing that, you will begin to move. And when you will begin to move, then people who want to move will begin to follow you. And you know, I love the Main Street model of boring, small, recession-proof businesses. Most of what makes them boring is on the outside, they're not looking for innovation. Right? If I need my lawn mowed, I just want it mowed. I don't need you to be innovative. But on the inside, there's huge value add if you can figure out how to innovate, how your employees engage with each other and with the customers. Those sorts of shifts are critical, and this is what it means to be a professional. What it meant to do hard work 100 years ago, where you needed to change your clothes twice a day cuz you were digging ditches. We're so lucky we don't do that anymore. Um at least I am. Okay, so what's the hard work? And the hard work isn't like gritting your teeth and getting through it. The hard work is being clear with yourself and then your team about the change you seek to make. What is the purpose of what we're doing? So, if you look at Will Guidara and Danny Meyer and talk about hospitality, hospitality doesn't come naturally at the end of a 6-hour shift. It's the work. That's what we're talking about. Where is the work? >> It's really underrated and hard, too, because you know, I think in this day and age we use Slack so much in my company, for instance, which is a great way to remove all emotion and just have sort of compliance top-down leadership. >> Yep. >> And I always try to go back to the quote that's, you know, if you want to teach your people how to build a boat, don't teach them about nails and ropes and bindings, teach them to yearn for the vast and endless sea, which is some saint that I can never remember, but I should remember because I quote it a lot. And I think your work does a really good job of that. It's like we want to inspire people and ourselves, uh not just mandate things. Like I know you famously don't like the word should, too, which I think is probably important. I know you've said optimism is a choice and a tool. >> Right. >> I can sometimes be proud of the fact that I'm a realist, and that could even border on the on a pessimist take. I'd be curious your stance. How do we switch to optimism? How do you have a choice to be optimistic? How could we do that if somebody's stuck being really pessimistic? >> Well, so, Cody, this is the first thing you've ever said to me that wasn't true. You're an optimist, and that's a key to uh what you've built. You're not a a foolish optimist. You're not saying, "I'm going to invest in this company and hope it's going to go well." Like what we want is when we're making a decision like, "How do I invest $100,000?" We want to put on a pessimist hat and say, "In this moment, let me make a list of all the things that could go wrong. Let me be very clear about the possible failure points." All right. But, the only way you're going to go forward is once you've established a foundation, is to say, "Now, how do I act as if? How do I set this up in such a way that if things work, we're going to get even more of where we want to go." So, the problem with doomscrolling, naysaying, and pessimism as a habit is you talk yourself into mediocrity again. You talk yourself into deniability. You talk yourself into a future that you don't want to end up with. And so, when I say that optimism is a tool, it's simply to say, "When I'm going to make a decision, the first thing I want to do is put my pessimist hat on to make sure I'm not going to be out of the game. But, then my optimist hat says, 'Where are the chances to lead? Where are the chances to create value here?' But, if you're fully a pessimist, you're never going to think through those things. >> Yeah, and I think if you're fully a pessimist, you're not going to ever get unstuck because you won't take action, which requires optimism. And and I I like the way you framed it in the knot about um confusion is often in the way of moving forward. It's not just pessimism, but you know, you talk about the conspiracy of stuck is built on basically three confusions. And the confusions being short-term conflict avoidance, unwillingness to create tension, misunderstanding of risk. What are those and how do you fight these types of confusion? >> Yeah, okay. So, short-term conflict avoidance is something that I'm glad we have in our culture. Right? Someone cuts you off in traffic, you don't ram their car. That we don't we've been calloused recently with all the spam phone calls and all the people hustling us to be confronted all day long with this, but for 10,000 years human beings were generally kind to each other. And so, when we need to speak up to get unstuck, the easiest thing to do is not bring it up at the dinner table, not bring it up with your parents, something that's been going on for too long, not bringing it up because in for 1 minute it will be awkward. So, we just live with it for a very long time. So, that's why the word short-term is there. That it's worth having a short-term conflict if it leads to long-term benefit to both sides. Just say it. The second one is about the unwillingness to create tension. Tension and stress are different. Stress is bad. Stress wears us out. It leads to trauma. Tension is pulling a rubber band back before you let go. If you don't pull it back, it's not going to fly across the room. So, when Taylor Swift says tickets are going to sell out in 20 minutes, she just created tension for everyone in the room. Because if you don't buy a ticket right now, you're going to get left out. So, when we show up to lead, when we show up to create possibility, when we get unstuck, we're going to cause tension for other people. We inflict it on purpose. We willingly inflict tension. Your book comes out in September. When people know that, there's tension that exists until they pre-order it. Because you invented that tension, right? And then what we know is we are terrible at being rational about risk. People still buy uh insurance before they get on an airplane. Airplanes never crash. It is way more dangerous to drive to the airport than to fly to wherever you're going. But it feels more dangerous to be on a plane. And we hesitate to ask our boss something that's mutually beneficial cuz it feels super risky. Even though in the history of this organization, not once has it ever led to someone's career ending, but it feels risky. So, when people show up and they're making huge progress through an industry, it's usually not because they have more skill than you, but but they're better at understanding what's actually risky versus what feels risky. Public speaking is not risky. It just feels risky. So, people like you and I can go on stage and give a speech because everyone else thinks it's too risky. No, it's risky to work in a coal mine. >> You know what's crazy, too? I've been in a coal mine, oddly, and even that risk now has decreased so hugely. Not to mention how much they get compensated for it, and I was worried about black lung and all of these things that kind of don't exist anymore. Now, granted, it's much riskier than me and my spreadsheets, you know, but um there's even a perceived risk there that's huge that isn't real. I've been obsessed with this idea lately because I think you can't spell rich without risk. Like, if you want to make money, I don't know anybody who can do that for you with no risk. And if if they can, they probably keep that secret to themselves. But, it seems like our entire society is set up to not have risk. You know, even now, you know, younger people getting married less, having sex less. Some of that's good, perhaps, but also it's just like tamping down our risk spectrum. So, I wonder, like, for somebody who's sitting there and worried about taking on more risk and putting themselves out there, what do you say to them, or what do you repeat to yourself when you're like, "This feels risky. I'm going to do it anyways."? >> The way you learned how to walk and the way you learned how to talk, and almost everything that's important, is you did it a little. You discovered what happened, and then you did it some more, and you got good at it. Please don't quit your day job. Don't quit your day job. Go try to mortgage your house, risk your life savings. Don't do that, right? But, maybe on Saturday go to a garage sale, buy $18 worth of stuff and see if you can sell it on eBay. Is that risky? I don't think it's risky. I think it's generous because there's somebody in Toledo who wants that thing you found. And they're eager to pay for it and you're going to charge them less than it's worth. And there was someone in the garage who wanted to sell it to you and they're eager to sell it and you paid what they thought was and you came out ahead by creating value for people. So, when people talk to me about risk, I ask them things like this. Like, when was the last time you did something generous that might not work? Where if it didn't work, only three people would know. And that's how I grew up. That's how I spent the formative years when I my business was struggling. I was constantly doing things where if they might if they didn't work, almost no one would notice. And you may have heard me tell the story about my mom, but I'll tell it again. My mom was one of the pioneers of museum stores. She co-founded the Museum Store Association and the museum at the Albright-Knox in Buffalo is a great museum. It was her full-time gig. When I was a teenager, she came home one day on a Friday and she seemed a little down. I said, "What's wrong?" She said, "Well, we're doing this thing tomorrow where she had gotten two appraisers from Sotheby's to come to the museum cuz she wanted to get people who never came to the museum to come. Buffalo's a working-class town. Bring what, you know, your grandmother's candlesticks. We'll tell you if they're worth anything." She said, "So, I've made this commitment to these people and I'm worried because what if no one comes?" And then she turned to me and she said, "Well, if no one comes, no one will know that no one came. >> God, that's such a good line. >> And it became a mantra for me. And the next morning we went to the museum and there were 5,000 people waiting in line. >> Because it was a generous thing to do. >> Everyone came out ahead. And if no one had come, no one would have known. >> Obviously, Seth talks a lot about getting unstuck. But for business owners, stuck isn't always so clear. It could be another quarter where revenue is technically up, but cash still feels tight, hiring is messy, important decisions somehow lands back on your desk. That is exactly why we built the growth boardroom. It's not for people trying to buy their first business. This is for owners with a real business who have real problems and want to get to the next level of the game without having to do all the expensive things yourself. So, what is it? Inside you get my advisors who help me build my businesses, operators, our advisory practice, and systems we use as private equity to scale your business to the next level of the game. So, let's say you're having problems with cash flow. You want more of it. Or you need to hire a new player. Or your sales team is a little bit broken. Or maybe it's the fact that the business only works when you're in every meeting. Yikes. Growth boardroom is going to help you fix that. You join us for 1 year of advisory and we help you turn the tables on your business revenue, growth, and profits. Also, this unfortunately is not for everybody. If you own a business and want to see if you qualify, you can hit the link below, fill out an application, and if you're a fit, we'll invite you out to join our boardroom. >> So, there's a famous artist. You tell the story about Jackson Pollock. And uh you have a story that I love. And it's in it's in the knot, isn't it? Um can you tell that story? >> So, in in the middle of the 1900s, Jackson Pollock was the most famous painter other than Picasso in the world. Certainly the most famous American painter, cover of Life magazine. He had 3 years in a row where every single thing he painted sold instantly and today is worth tens of millions of dollars. And um then he stopped. And he went back to his studio in Long Island and started painting a totally different kind of work. Different scale, different look. And his wife, Lee Krasner, who also an artist, said that he had decided he had gone as far as he could with what he had done before at the drip paintings. And he didn't want to do be like a cover band doing re- rehashes of Jackson Pollock paintings. He wanted to go back to being the artist. And so with all that momentum, with everything going for him, and we've been talking this whole time about what do people do who don't have that, right? With all that momentum, he brings the new work out, big show, and everyone hates it. The critics hate it, no one buys it. You've probably never seen any of the paintings. I had to look really hard to find them. I don't like them, either. And it led to an uh his drinking increasing, and he ended up uh dying in a drunken car crash taking him with him. Why? Cuz he wanted two things, not one. He wanted to be on the edge, to be on the frontier, to be an artist. And but it's not and, it's but. But, he also wanted to be successful, sold out, and rich. And because the two things couldn't happen at the same time, he broke. And that and and but dichotomy completely changed my life. Once you understand that you're carrying all these buts around, and that the buts are what are keeping you from doing the thing you say you want, now you can make a choice, which is stop saying you want it and live with the fact that the butt is there, or get rid of the buts and turn them into ands. I'm going to run the marathon and I'm going to get tired. Not, I'm going to run the marathon but I don't want to get tired. And once you add the and, right? I'm going to buy these sorts of Main Street businesses and my fancy lawyer friends aren't going to think I'm fancy. Great. That goes with it. Part of the deal. >> Yeah, it seems like you've got to do this, too. Like the indoctrination to not ending up like is that you have to create things just for you, even if they tank. I mean, we talk about that sometimes on this channel. My my favorite videos that we ever do or my favorite pieces of content are the ones where I I'm like, I don't care if anybody else what like I'm ramped up about this today. Or um even, you know, sometimes I'll show them to my husband or friends and they'll be like, this is so cringey. I'm like, I love it. I think it's so fun. I don't care. And I think if you don't have those every so often, then you end up like letting other people drive your life. And I see it a lot with the algorithms, too. You know, I was just at this like big YouTube creator thing and it was the biggest YouTube creators in the world and I don't really label myself as a YouTuber or a podcaster or a whatever. Or I just think I do stuff that I find interesting and I like business. Maybe I'm a business person. But um it was fascinating cuz they all talked about how once you get boxed in as like one type of format, one type of video, it's really hard to break out of that. But then you start becoming sort of a mirror to everybody else's desires instead. And that seems super dangerous. >> Yes, but we got to be clear about the choices and the consequences. They called me up a bunch of years ago when it was first starting and they said, "Will you audition for Shark Tank? We want you to be one of the judges on Shark Tank." And I said, "Well, what what do you think?" And they said, "Well, you would be the nasty judge." >> [laughter] >> And they actually have a bald nasty judge now, but you would be the nasty judge. >> It's Kevin, right? >> I'm not saying [laughter] anything. >> I know Kevin. So, I can give him crap. >> And um I said to myself, there's a real cost to that. If you want the prizes that come from that, you have to pay the price that comes from that. So, in your case, there's an alignment. There are a few people who when you like it, they like it. And that's great, but if you want to be Oprah, you can't do that. Because Oprah has to do things that large numbers of people are going to like. So, the thing you're not allowed to do is become entitled. When you're entitled, you've just added the butt. I want to do exactly what I want to do, but I want lots of people to like it. No, can't have it both ways. >> How many of your books that you wrote were I want to do this, don't care what anybody else thinks as opposed to I think this is a huge book, and so I'm going to do it? >> I've never written a book that was supposed to be a huge book. >> Wow, never? >> I tried when I was a book packager. I did the Beardstown Ladies Common Sense Investment Guides. Those were very, very big books. They were on I had four of them on the New York Times Best Sellers at the same time. But that wasn't my book. I was helping somebody else make their book. Uh even though you know, I touched all of it, their name was on it. The um the thing is that it's very hard to make something knowing it's going to be big. Now, there is a book I wrote called Survival Is Not Enough, and Charles Darwin wrote the forward, which is not easy cuz he's dead. And I was indulging myself with that book. I spent a full year, 8 hours a day. I wrote 200,000 words because I could, and the book didn't sell. And I don't talk about the book on stage cuz every time I talk about it, people's eyes glaze over. You Evolution is just not a good thing to talk about on stage cuz it confuses people. Okay, fine. Right? But I didn't completely get kicked out of the industry, either. I got mostly kicked out of the industry cuz that was the consequence of writing a book that I was just indulging myself. So, when Purple Cow came out, I didn't have a publisher. And I published it myself in a milk carton for only 5,000 people because I was writing it for them. I didn't write that book for me. I wrote that book for them. And so, ever since then, I have never written a book for me. I try to imagine who are What's the minimum smallest viable audience that would be enough? Is that number commensurate with what I'm going to put into it or what my partner's going to have to cuz if it doesn't match, then I'm being indulgent. But, if it does match if you can satisfy that smallest viable audience and you know, in the case of a a landscaping business, it's six blocks in the suburbs. If those 500 people think you're the best there ever was, it's enough. And that's the goal is where can we find that smallest viable audience? There's a a little shop in Brooklyn called 69 Atlantic and The Art of Play. It's smaller than this studio. And they sell little puzzles and things in the front, and then there's a secret door in the back. Don't tell anyone I told you. And two or three nights a week, they open a bookshelf and there's a little room behind it that has 24 seats. And the greatest magicians in the world come to this room with 24 people in it. It's totally worth going. And if it was 240 seats, none of it would work. It's the right number of people in the right room for the right reason. That's enough. Just figure out what your enough is. It might be a million. Right? If you're on YouTube and you don't have a million, you're not going to make a living. But, there's 8 billion people in the world. A million's not that many. I know a guy who does You know those reaction videos? >> He does He and his partner who do who is a songwriter both from uh the Midwest do reaction videos to Filipino pop songs. >> [laughter] >> And they did a couple at the first cuz it was funny cuz they don't understand the words or anything. But the Filipino audience found them. And they make a full-time living doing this cuz they found their people. That's what the internet's for. It's a terrible mass medium. It's a very good micro medium. >> It's really freeing when you think about it that way because you can make money doing just about anything. And there's a lot of downsides that come with really, really big. It's just increasing complexity. So I always think like, you know, what a beautiful thing it is that and you've talked about this in many ways. You've talked about this like minimally viable group of people often in your books, which is really freeing. And then, you know, Kevin Kelly's got his thousand true fans. And I think those two models can really help small businesses who can make millions or tens of millions off of a very small subset of people. >> Yeah. >> You know, we have you know, we get 130 million views a month. But the people that I actually sell anything to is probably 3,000 or 5,000 people a year. That's not very many people actually. >> and they would all miss you if you were gone. >> Uh-huh. Yeah. >> And that's the key. You don't want to hustle people who wouldn't miss you. >> Yeah. >> But if you're offering something to people who would, they say thank you. >> It's so freeing because, you know, you want to like everybody to like you. It's that high school mentality. I think um one other thing I want to talk about from you is you talk about you have this line that I love. The stickiest entanglements don't feel like traps. They feel like facts. First, can you sort of define what is entanglements? And then, what do you mean by that? >> Right. So entanglements are at the heart of everything we've just talked about. They're invisible action at a distance. They are the magnetic forces that undermine what we're doing. They are the high school teacher we're still trying to prove was wrong in what they said about So there's the old girlfriend who doesn't even know we exist anymore. They are the uh memory we have of getting scolded when we were seven and we don't want to get scolded again. We are entangled with all of these feelings. Spooky action at a distance. They're not in the room, but they are. We you know, we paid uh $300,000 to go to dental school. Our family supported us. We made it through and years later we hate being a dentist. And so now we're going to spend the next 50 years drilling kids' teeth because we are entangled with a decision we made 15 years ago. We don't have to do that. We can say it's true that happened and I forgive myself or I forgive whatever else can along because these aren't facts. These are just things we are choosing to focus on. And when we watch people who are excellent at what they do in any field it's because they figured out as a professional how to get unentangled with that other thing that holds everybody else back. And my argument is the secret to dealing with it is three words. Tell the truth. If you tell me the truth about your entanglements, they wither in the sunlight because they're so absurd when we say them out loud. If we keep saying them out loud, oh thanks for offering me to do that, but I remember when I was nine this thing happened so I'm afraid to go to this conference cuz it might happen. What? Right? Tell the truth at work. When we're entangled at work, like why do we have this weekly meeting every Thursday? Well, we need to have a meeting. No, we don't have to have a meeting. We could just have a memo. Why do we have this meeting every Thursday? Well, uh Oh, because the boss likes it if we all sit in a circle, shake our heads and agree with her. Okay, now we're clear about why we're having the meeting, we can make a new decision based on that truth. >> Why is it so hard for people to tell the truth? And how do you tell yourself the truth about these situations? >> Entanglements are very good at preserving themselves. That's why they're still around. So, they come up with an enormous number of reasons to keep us from doing it. My friend Steve Pressfield calls this resistance. Resistance is the invisible force that, for example, invents writer's block. No one has writer's block. Writer's block is a myth. You don't get talker's block. No one goes So, write down what you say. You're done. You wrote. Now, it might not be good, but you didn't say you have a shortage of good writing. You just said you can't write. So, show me all your bad writing. And if you keep doing enough bad writing, something good is going to sneak in there. I'm sure of it. So, resistance is everywhere you look. It's the parts inside of us, the tender parts, the scared parts, the little kids who are protecting themselves in a shell, who are hiding and fighting overtime to force you to sabotage what you say you want to protect themselves. And if we can tell the truth about why you're going to a singles bar instead of building a real relationship, why you're eating that instead of going to go for a walk, whatever it is, if we can be clear about it, it will wither and die. It will always be something we're aware of, but you can make a difference for people if you care enough to do this work. Every problem is solvable. >> So, in practice, how would that work? Like I remember I sat with Tony Robbins and I was like I was trying to, you know, with him I'm like, I want to see him in action, you know? So, I'm like So, like I I want to give him something that I'm bad at or struggling at and have him fix me, you know? Like isn't this what what we do here? And um he was so funny because at the time it was um I was trying to drink less wine. Like it doesn't make I'm older this is the lamest thing ever, but it's just what was on top of mind for me. I'm I'm getting older. It doesn't sit that well with me. I love red wine though. Like I I love the whole thing about it. And um you know, so I just would end up drinking a glass or two every night as part of my process. And it was very funny cuz I told him that and he like looks at me, you know, and he's we've talked about he's very intense, but in that moment he's like, "Ah, honey, you just don't have a big enough why?" And then he kind of like carries on into the next thing. And I thought about that for a while and I was like, "Why don't feel fixed?" So I'm not sure, you know, what happened here. And then I I thought about it later and since then my husband and I have been focusing on fertility, which is a big why. And lo and behold, I'm not drinking anymore. And it's not even a problem. And so I was wondering in your take, like sometimes I hear these things like we need to find our truths, but they they are hidden. They hide. And they're really smooth talkers. >> Yeah. >> So let's say somebody right now is struggling with I feel stuck in creating my thing, my art, my work, whatever. How would you poke them to get to the reason why they're to the to the story that they're telling themselves basically? >> Yeah. Well, Tony is brilliant at this and I am not. My my take is you should poke yourself. >> Mhm. >> And cuz I'm not going to be in the room for very long and you can have some things that you can approach. So, what we see when we get stuck is stuck is another word for comfortable. And we build all sorts of habits to keep us stuck because we want to be stuck cuz it's comfortable. So if we want to undo habits, the best way to do it is not to constantly require willpower, but to build new habits. A blog post every day is a habit. So, if you tell me that you want to do this, and I'm going to take you at your word that you're serious about it. Let's explore where the entanglements are. Well, I I don't like criticism. I'm worried that I'll get fired from my job. I I'm afraid that if I do this, no one will come. Okay, great. If you did it under another name, how many of those problems go away? Because what you were saying is you want to create a work, and you want to get credit for it. Those are two different things. So, the but was a problem, cuz it wasn't really an and. If you were willing to not get credit for it, would it be easier for you to do creative work? So, let's make a habit. There's going to be a blog post every single day for 4 weeks. Doesn't have your name on it. There's absolutely no downside. If you come back here in 4 weeks, and you haven't done it, then you don't want to do the work. But if you do the work, a month from now, you're a blogger. A month from now, you're a writer. A month from now, you're somebody who's written 3,000 words. And your next 3,000 are going to be better. But what you were really saying is that you want to be Cody, and you want 130 million view without doing Yeah, you of course you're not going to get that. But let's discover how do you become the kind of person who does this. The kind of person that when they look in the mirror, sees someone who does things like this. When I am in public, I am playing the role of Seth Godin. I'm not really Seth Godin. I know what that role is like. I know how to act that role, but that's a choice. So, you become that by forgiving the entanglements, letting go of the person you've become habituated to be. And instead, make one decision, and turn it into a series of habits. And if you're willing to do this work, I've never once heard from someone who did the work and didn't get the output. But you might not be willing to do the work, and that's fine. It's fine with me. >> Do you take off the yellow glasses when you're not Seth Godin? Like what's the one what what's the what's the superman to you know Clark Kent? >> So one thing I found, I used to go to TED a lot. Um people don't believe it, but most TED speakers are introverts. That they don't walk into a cocktail party and shake hands with every single person. And so most of the time I'm sitting in a room by myself with my puppy, and I'm writing or I'm thinking or I'm talking to Claude or whatever it is, but I'm not like that. I mean, I think Tony's like that all the time, but most of the people who do what we do we're not like that all the time. >> Yeah. No, I'm the same. I actually it gives me anxiety. Although I'm very loud on the internet, but my husband is actually the one when we go out in public, he's great. You know, I call my front man because he gets to go have all the action, talk to everybody, and I kind of chill. I like to think about things, which is probably why we up on the internet or write books. You know, I'm I'm actually quite comfortable with that. I just feel like there's some sort of service that comes from sharing it with other people then I get those feedback loops. >> Yeah. >> I want you to tell the story um that goes with this quote that I got to put on the wall, which is instead of wondering when your next vacation is, maybe you should set up a life that you don't escape from. Very poignant, especially today when for a lot of people that is possible. You know, that especially in the US, pretty possible. And you open up with a parable about a man named Alexander and the knot, and I thought there was a lot of similarity between the two. So would you mind telling that story? >> So they call him Alexander the Great. I think when he was 17, no one added the great part. He was just Alexander. And there was a legend in a small town in Turkey that uh there was a an ox cart that was tied with a very complicated knot to the edge of town and it was said that whoever could come and untie this knot would become the ruler of all of Europe. And uh Alexander showed up and there's a myth about it that's not true which is that he took out a sword, cut it in half and said, "There's no knot." That's not really what the story was. The story was this. He showed up, he heard the story, he saw the complicated knot and he said, "Wait, there's a wooden post in the middle of it. If I just pull this post out, the knot sort of takes care of itself." Because it had entwined itself and was concealing the real problem. Pull out the post and the knot gets fixed. That doesn't mean it's easy. It takes a lot of practice to realize where is the post, where is the entanglement, where is the thing I'm going to pull out. But we're surrounded by knots. There are all these people who want us to be mildly unhappy. There are all these people who want us to measure the wrong things and buy solace in the form of a bottle or a fast food or whatever it is. That's good for them to make us reasonably unhappy all the time. But when you see where the post is and you see where the knot is, you can make different choices. Now the quote you shared is from the beginning of my book Linchpin which I wrote 20 years ago, 15 years ago. And the world has changed since then. It has made it harder for freelancers and for people who had a a day job to find joy in their work because they basically have mechanized everything and turned us into keystroke counting cogs. But there's still an attitude shift that goes on. And it was I'm not good at jet lag. It was 4:00 in the morning. I'm sitting in the lobby of this hotel when I'm on vacation. And [snorts] my family's asleep, what am I going to do? And I'm checking my email and I'm enjoying it because no one's telling me what to do. I get a chance to do it. And these two people walk by. I don't know why they were up at 4:00 in the morning and one turns to the other and says, "Look at that poor man working on vacation." And I said to myself, "Look at those poor schmoes. They're going to spend 51 weeks unhappy so they can come here for 1 week a year and escape." So, wouldn't it make more sense to make difficult choices about why we're spending our time this way? What's important to us? Do I really want to be a millionaire or do I just want to tell people I'm a millionaire? Right? Because what would make a good life? What is my purpose? What am I keeping track of? Cuz if you make $30 million and your family doesn't speak to you, I don't think you won. And I get that Goldman Sachs wants you to make $30 million cuz that's the only way they get clients. But that might not be what you want. So, let's get unentangled and clear. Tell the truth about the change we seek to make. Who's it for and what's it for? Cuz when we bring this intent to the work, we might fail and we have to own that or we might succeed. But at least we're just not coasting along as a victim. >> So, this book and this conversation that we've had today, what do you hope that people get when they read The Nudge? Like when they're done, it's the last page, they've read through it, what will have changed in their life? >> I tell a bunch of stories in the book about tuberculosis. And I tell stories about homelessness and mass transit, big, big, big problems. And I talk about little tiny annoying problems like who won't who loads the dishwasher. >> [snorts] >> And problems can be solved. Situations cannot. If you have a situation, accept it. Doesn't mean it's fair, doesn't mean it's right, but that's not worth your time. Gravity, you're not going to be able to do anything about gravity. But if it's a problem and you can solve it and make things better for yourself and other people, I hope you will. We're not going to run out of problems anytime soon. We are running out of optimism, we're running out of enthusiasm, we're running out of the ability to lean into the work. >> Mhm. >> And I'm naive enough to think that maybe if I wrote a book about that it would help. >> Well, it's a beautiful book. Seth Godin, thank you so much for being here today. >> Thanks, Cody. >> [music]
