What about clients that are close to 3 million LinkedIn impressions in just 90 days? And better yet, they booked 72 sales calls in the third month alone with no cold outreach. So, in this video, I'm going to be showing you the exact five key content formats that we use that are currently working on LinkedIn right now to generate not just reach, but also revenue. And I'm doing this because after 3 million dollars in client results and successfully implementing this for over 50 B2B companies now, we've collected more data in these last few months than most people would in years. [music] So, today we're going to be pulling back the curtain on exactly how we achieved these results and how you can replicate them, too. All right, guys. So, as you can see here, we have the screenshot of the analytics where we literally got them 2.8 million impressions in 90 days pretty much from zero. Okay? So, these are absolutely absurd results and not only that, when I asked them in Slack how many total calls they booked, we checked and it ended up being over 72 calls like tracked in Slack, individual notifications that are directly come from LinkedIn. Okay? So, this is insane and you can literally use this if you're stuck around 200 or less impressions per post. You can use this if you want a B2B audience and you don't just want a bigger one, but you actually care about quality, right? And you care about attracting decision-makers who are eventually going to buy your service. Number three is if you're still running 2023 era LinkedIn tactics. So, if I see people, you know, posting polls or doing, you know, super fancy carousels which don't really work as well anymore. And number four is simply just going to be if maybe you already have the audience, right? I've spoken to people who have 50,000 followers and they're generating less than 5K a month from their LinkedIn. All right, that is completely horrible. We are aiming from anywhere from like two to $10 per follower. It really varies upon the niche, but you can imagine, you know, one of my clients, he has 50,000 LinkedIn followers and he's generated multi-multi six figures in the last year from LinkedIn. So, something like that is like a pretty good ratio, and that's not even thinking about any of the other benefits that come with having a personal brand, right? So, what this breakdown is going to cover is five things. We're going to cover five content formats. So, the exact type of post that you need to use if you want to get reach on LinkedIn right now. Number two is going to be the posting structure. So, what is the correct cadence and consistency and strategy that you should use to train the algorithm to push your posts to the same people every single day. Number three is the weekly content mix. So, how do we balance out these different types of posts that we're doing to make sure that we keep the ICP concentration high, and we're actually maximizing for trust building, right? Because if you only posted personal stories every day, you're only ever going to have top of funnel audience. Nobody's ever going to trust you enough to buy a service from you, right? Sorry if I'm talking fast, but I'm really, really into this, and I am ready to give you guys all of the value. So, number four is going to be the lead capture layer. So, lead capturing is extremely important. Content isn't the only thing, but it's also what happens after, right? So, how can we turn these comments into connections and into actual pipeline? Then we have the results. Quick thing, if you still have not generated leads from LinkedIn yet, and you honestly just want to skip this whole testing phase and not put any of the time to do it yourselves and just pay some experts to do it, right? Then there is going to be a link in the description where we will essentially just show you what we run for our clients, and you can apply to work with us, okay? And we'll see if it's a good fit. So, if you want to do that, the link is in the description. I don't want to waste you guys' time. I know what you're here for. Let's get into the value. So, format number one is the lead magnet post. Now, just to just to preview you guys a little bit about the types of results. This is a screenshot I took of a post we did for them. We got them 270,000 impressions and 2.7 thousand comments on one singular lead magnet alone. Nowadays on LinkedIn, to get these types of numbers, it's extremely rare, okay? It's extremely rare. Here are the key parts of a good lead magnet post. Number one, we need a core offer. So, the way you should be thinking about your lead magnets is you should pick one main pain point, right, that you solve, and you need to consider your free resource that you are giving away to be that bridge to sort of solve that pain point, right? At at least as fully as it can, right? And I would recommend, right now, Claude prompts {slash} Claude skills are really amazing. And that being said, I know that they can feel a little cheap, and especially if you're selling an AI-related service, it can just maybe not make a lot of sense, in which case you might want to do something like a more in-depth Notion document, you might want to do a video masterclass like this. Um there's a bunch of different options. The idea is you just need to make the resource as easy to consume and as easy to get value from as possible. Okay? And obviously, with a Claude prompt, they can copy-paste that into Claude and instantly get an output, so that's why people tend to opt in for those. And as you can see with this one, this one was a Claude system, we're basically talking about using Claude schedule to replace outreach agencies. We're basically talking about using Claude schedule to replace SDRs, because it would basically like automate scripting and this and this. So, this sort of pain point was the fact that all the time that it takes to like set up outbound campaigns, and you can see that it really did resonate. So, the hook structure, I would recommend starting with a bold claim. Now, bold claims can be a controversial take. It could be a client result. It could be anything, really. Like, for example, in this case, we said, "RIP outreach agencies and SDR teams," right? We decided to be polarizing on purpose. Obviously, these companies are not going to die, but it's about polarization, and it's about getting people talking in the comments. Now, if you prefer not to do that, you could simply say, "Hey, look, this AI system does what these people do for this much money, and this AI system's, you know, free, or it costs $20 a month, right, for the plan." So, like, you can find softer ways of talking about it, but the idea is we need something which stops the scroll. So, some sort of bold claim, right? A lot of the time, you could also just say a result, right? So, if you have a client result or an expected result, you can always do that, right? So, for example, I took a client from zero to 89K a month in 6 months. So, I posted a case study about it that got 900 comments, I think, and the first line was just like, "This person went from zero to 89K a month using LinkedIn, right?" Anybody that sees that, that's in a similar situation to them, and wants to get to the same dream outcome, is going to be instantly curious. And the fact that you can't explain, right? You can't explain it in in two lines. So, they need to click see more to kind of fix that to kind of close the open loop, right? That's the key thing with hooks, is creating some sort of curiosity and some sort of open loop where to close the open loop, they need to click on see more. And what you'll find with lead magnets is because we're sending resources to people in the comments, that's another open loop. So, they need the resource to close the second open loop of actually getting all the value from it, right? So, it's just like that's why they perform so well. Positioning, um I would recommend either framing it as exclusive internal material or something where it's like, you know, other people would usually charge you thousands for this, right? Very simple, but adding a line like that can easily help boost the performance. Um having a CTA, so with the CTA, you want to tell people to comment something. I would say under six letters is good, just because it's low friction. One thing I would keep in mind is nowadays LinkedIn is kind of battling people who tell you, like, must who say must be connected in their posts, and who kind of make it seem like an engagement farm. Um so, I would try and avoid that. I would try and make it just a comment. And if you want them to connect with you, you can say that in the image, but don't say it in the post because it will suppress reach. Same thing with putting links, like just don't put links. It doesn't make sense. Um, because the whole point with lead magnets is to get people to comment and then create like this network effect spiral where it just goes more and more viral. So, with the algorithmic engine is exactly what I talked about. So, when one person comments, it gets pushed out to all of their connections. So, it's like a huge network effect. And then with the network growth side, because for people to receive the resource, they do need to connect with you, which is what you'd mention in the image or you'd like subtly mention it in the post. That means that then people automatically follow you. Like that's just the way LinkedIn works. If you're connected, you follow them. So, you get all these people which will then see your future content as well, and they've already gotten value from you. So, it's an extremely valuable type of content where you can extract tons out of the audience. Now, the top trend as I mentioned before is AI lead magnets, okay? Claude skills, Claude prompts. I would recommend being extremely active on X specifically so that you can stay up-to-date with all of the latest updates, all of the latest models. That is the best way for you to trend jack and be the first to those trends. >> Quick pause. So, if you are an agency owner or a B2B SaaS founder that is looking to turn LinkedIn into an inbound lead generation channel, then I have two options for you just depending on where you are at. Option number one is if you simply want to learn more about our system and what I've already broken down, then there will be a one-hour full course for you to watch after you finish this video and it will just show you exactly how we book our clients consistently 50 to 100 plus calls every single month. That being said, if you are past the stage of wanting to learn it yourself and you want to skip that whole testing phase and have someone run it for you, you can apply to work with us with the calendar link in the description. On that call, we basically just see if you're a good fit and how we usually work with our clients, we'll show you the whole process. So, if that is of interest, the next steps are in the description. But that being said, let's get back to the video. Format two is the big name tag post. So, you want to tag a specific one-on-one company or figure in your niche directly and link it to your offering. So, what I would recommend, and the reason I'm saying this, is when you tag them, you either like break down their strategy, right? Or you roast their strategy, or you talk about what they're doing so well and maybe what you'd do in their situation. Like you Or it's a story about that company and then you link it to your service, right? But the idea is just having a big name to link to in the hook because that is what people will recognize and that will then allow you to associate your brand with them. So, for example, I made a tweet, right? I did it on Twitter, but it's the same concept. I made a tweet about Clay's LinkedIn strategy. You know what? I'll just put it up right now. So, I made a tweet about Clay's LinkedIn strategy. I made two, actually. And you can see this one got 190k, uh where I basically said, "Pay attention to what Clay's doing on LinkedIn right now because this is the most underrated GTM playbook I've ever seen." So, I'm not saying that I'm doing anything for Clay, but I'm able to use their authority and it also pushes my agenda, which is the fact that LinkedIn is the best platform and because I truly believe that. But it's basically the proof is in the pudding, right? If that makes sense. Like I'm showing real examples that back up my point with these extremely large companies that people know, and this actually got me some of the most qualified leads I've ever gotten simply because the people which look up to those larger companies are other larger companies, right? Okay? So, that's why it performed so well and that's why I'd recommend that. And on LinkedIn, it's the same thing, but you would tag them and ideally hope to get them to comment so that it gets pushed out to their audience. So, I did that with Laura Costa as well recently. She's an influencer, she has like 300,000 followers. I did that, I got like 200 likes on a normal post with no call to action. Now, as I said before, there's an authority transfer. If you simply talk about a authoritative brand in your space, you will also be associated with it. It's that simple, right? Unless you're like completely roasting them. Um the content requirement is to try and make it as accurate as possible. The worst thing you can do is break down somebody else's strategy and have it be completely wrong. Like that's the worst thing. So, make sure it's all correct. Don't just use AI to do it. You need to make sure all of the numbers and like the strategy is real. Now, an example would be tagging a billion-dollar company to analyze their lead gen approach or tag a company which is already doing successful lead gen and explaining it and then maybe explain a couple things they could do on top of it, right? Format three is the proprietary insight post. So, this is a value post, right? But the thing is, if you just said, "Hey, here's five tips to grow your agency." Nobody's going to listen to that, right? No Nobody cares. But if I said, "I've spoken to a thousand plus agency owners and we manage 50 plus agency agency as clients. These are the five tips from speaking to all these people. If you want to grow your agency as fast as possible in the next 90 days." All of a sudden, my authority is so high, like you you can't bear not to listen to me, right? But the idea is your value can be the exact same, but simply because one is backed by data and experience that is unique to you or difficult to achieve, it automatically makes your post way, way more receptive to the ICP. So, an example would be, "We have built a LinkedIn content strategy for over 100 B2B founders. Here is the pattern nobody talks about." And I would honestly say making this even more specific because anyone can kind of say they've spoken to 100 B2B to be So, making it more specific with specific results and time frames. So, saying like, in the last month, right? Just things which make it as easy for the prospect to see in their mind as possible. Now, the other thing you could do is save drivers. So, the thing is, if you have specific metrics that you can mention, if you have specific client interactions, quotes, like things like that which you can mention in your post, that is also going to make you stand out because that's unique to you. You need to remember, at the end of the day, we are building a personal brand, and we need to show people like what makes you unique. It doesn't necessarily mean that your service needs to be the newest thing in the world, but it's just the positioning and you and your service and your clients and their situations, those are the drivers for the unique mechanism. Now, this is just going to build insane authority, right? And authority makes people listen to you, and it eventually builds enough trust where they'll buy from you. Very, very simple. Key metrics that I would track for these types of posts is going to be saves and comments. Like, I think you'll also see on LinkedIn as like a insightful. So, there's like different types of likes on LinkedIn. I wouldn't usually look at it too much, but if you see a lot of insightful likes on LinkedIn, it usually means that it was a specifically like very, very valuable post. Format number four is going to be the mechanism comparison post. So, everyone who's selling a B2B service has different options, right? Somebody decides to pay an agency or do they decide to do it in-house? Somebody decides to pay for a software or do they decide to vibe code it in-house, right? Or do they decide to use a competing software? So, you need to explain to people why you guys are better than the other options. So, this is for people who are already a bit more familiar with your content, they're already a bit more familiar with the mechanism, but we need to explain to them that we are the best option out of all the other options, right? But, this is just the mechanism fundamentally. I'm not I'm about your service specifically. So, for example, for me, I'm selling LinkedIn inbound, right? LinkedIn inbound is way stronger than cold email because cold email is a short-term game where reply rates are dropping every single month, and every single month you need to send more emails to get more customers. Whereas Whereas LinkedIn inbound keeps compounding, it brings leads to your door, and people are actually happy to work with you and willing to pay you more money than any cold lead ever would. If I wanted to compare LinkedIn LinkedIn inbound to something like ads, the truth is just like the cost of a qualified lead is way higher on something like Google Ads. Or the fact that one platform might take longer to see results, right? Or the fact that one platform might take more time. So, there's all these benefits of all the all these different things, and you I would recommend mapping it out. If you can use specific client examples of saying, "This guy used to do this channel or used to work with this uh strategy, and now he's switched to us, and now it's working." That's extremely strong because it's immediately going to mean that people are going to ignore the original option, or people that are in his previous situation are going to be like, "Okay, let me take the same step as him, and let me start working with you." Or at least, you know, start be more convinced about the mechanism that we're selling. As an example, every other channel costs more while delivering less. Like LinkedIn organic is by far the most untapped B2B channel right now, no doubt. Um asset versus rent. As I told you before, LinkedIn is compounding, whereas other channels are depreciating, and they are not built for long-term growth. Uh network growth. So, you're actually going to build your personal brand. And then value and impact. This type of post with like channel comparisons, like people are going to feel like you're saving them time and money, which is true. Like you are going to be saving them time and money. Like your service should be amazing. And it should drive an ROI, and it should be better than all these other channels. Like, that's a given. So, we need to do a service to the market by letting them know, right? And the market, if you truly do this in an authentic way, the market's going to trust you, and they're going to see that this guy's actually saving me time from wasting time, wasting money on other channels, and he's just laying out the option for me. And obviously, I could work with them. I could also do it myself, right? And then, there's that whole thing, and a percentage of people will become buyers. Format five is the internal milestone/personal post. So, I wasn't a fan of personal post for a very, very, very long time. That being said, I kind of realized that if you do it in the right way, it is extremely strong. Because we don't want to say, "Oh, I have a personal post where Oh, this client just charged back, and now, you know, because we didn't deliver results, right?" Like, that's like a horrible personal post to make. Like, you don't want to ruin your authority. But, if you think of it in a way where you can subtly drop in little lines and little milestones. So, for example, one of my clients, Goji Berry, they did a post about hitting X number of ARR, and we just positioned it as a personal post. And we were just like, "Hey, look. We hit this much ARR. This is everything we did so far. This is, you know, our journey from zero." And like, that builds a ton of trust, because people see them in that situation along the way. And not only does it build like this trust outside of just like a company in the business space, like it builds that personal trust, but it still keeps them on authority, because they're hitting milestones, right? They're achieving their goals. They're getting that dopamine. And that's really going to resonate with anyone that's struggling to hit revenue targets, that's struggling to get leads. So, the engagement driver, I would say this is one of those posts where also like comments and DMs are going to be huge. Like, you'll tend to get a lot of a new a lot of people which are like, "Okay, this guy's super legit." And they'll connect with you, they'll DM you, they'll view your profile. And there'll also be a lot of like conversation in the comments, right? Um as I said, though, like these do need to be real and they need to be high specificity, right? Like there needs to be exact numbers that you can share or at least something like, you know, a general figure, right? Like we just hit six our first six-figure month, right? Something like that, for example, could work as well. Friction in the selling is the fact that, as I said before, it's an authority post, this guy's a personal post. So, it works extremely well. Key metrics, we already talked about this. So, format choice is only 50% of the success. However, the remaining 50% is going to depend on the posting structure and the execution layout. Let me explain you the algorithm a little bit. So, the algorithm on LinkedIn now is very much focused on pushing your content to the right people, not necessarily a broad amount of people. I mean, obviously, a broad amount of the right people would be ideal, but at the very least, the right people, okay? Because that's what that matters at the end of the day. Like, if the people that are reading your content are never going to like benefit you, if it's just doesn't align with your goal, there's no point. So, what I would recommend is that you have a very specific profile, and this is where the profile is actually relevant to the content, not just conversions, but having a profile which is very targeted to an ICP is going to help the LinkedIn algorithm know who to push your content out to, okay? And that's also things that you should subtly mention in your post is like the industries that you work with, like the revenue levels, like all of this stuff, it will indirectly help the algorithm push it to the right people. The other thing is consistency over frequency. So, if you truly cannot post once a day at the same time every single day, which by the way, is kind of the bare minimum and you should be doing that, um, the biggest thing is the algorithm gets used to your content and it will start expecting your content. And when it doesn't get your content, it's probably going to reduce the performance and you're going to lose a bit of momentum. Whereas, if you post every single day at 8:00 a.m., you're going to get yourself into the algorithm, and then also your audience is simply going to build the habit of like, "Oh, let me see what this guy posted about today. Oh, like the I haven't seen this guy's post in the feed today." They're going to be confused, right? And somebody else is going to take your spot in the feed, and then who knows, imagine that's a competitor, and then now they've taken your client, right? So, posting at the same time is actually much more important than you think. And then I would do a very, very minimum of five posts a week, but I like to hold myself to a high standard. If I'm not doing one post a day, then I've failed that week. It's It's as simple as that, okay? And especially because Sunday is one of the highest performing days, some days perform a bit worse, it's still an audience that you're attracting. Like, it doesn't need to perform your as your best day. And also, just make the content a 10% better to make up for it. Like, come on, guys, it's not that hard. Now, the penalty for inconsistency is the fact that if you don't miss your schedule, you will build momentum, and it will compound, trust me. Like, over This is something which is a bit more long-term, like I would say 3 to 6 months, but over 3 to 6 months, it will really, really compound, because then in the first hour of your post, you're going to get such a huge amount of engagement from people that expect it, from the right people that see your content, that all of your posts are going to perform well. Like, literally. Now, what is the content mix, okay? So, using kind of the format above, what is the mix? So, I would say we want to do two proprietary insight {slash} educational posts a week, okay? This is those bottom-of-funnel style content, um teaching people how to achieve the outcome, cementing yourself as somebody who knows what they're talking about. Number one, one big name tag post, which is top of funnel, okay? This is more newsjacking or trendjacking, I would call it. We will then do one mechanism comparison post. This is in between, I would say, bottom of funnel and middle of funnel, where we kind of There's people who are already aware of the mechanism, but maybe they're considering different options, and we want to cement them into the belief that our mechanism is the superior one. Number The next one will be the personal posts. So, this is, again, top of funnel. So, this is where we're subtly building authority and trying to build a connection outside of just business, because that's actually going to set you apart from all the other competitors. And then the next two are going to be lead magnets. Right, lead magnets, they're kind of a bit of They You can position them how you want. You could do a case study lead magnet, and then you could do a very top of funnel cold lead magnet. That's what I would recommend. Case study lead magnets are by far the highest converting type of post on LinkedIn as a whole, like booking calls, getting clients. And I've got a video about that coming up, so you're going to need to stay tuned for that one. That being said, the other one you should do should be as broad as possible, as valuable as possible, just trying to get as many eyeballs as possible, leveraging trends, going into AI, making it like the the craziest thing they've ever seen. Now, the weekly rhythm, as I said before, seven posts a week, don't miss Sundays, don't miss Mondays. Um usually in the middle of the week it might be a little lower, but again, post every day if you can, please. And the lead capture layer is extremely interesting. And this is because I see a lot of people that think all the work is done once they once they post, once they click post. And the truth is, unfortunately, that is not the case. So, what do we do with the lead capture layer? So, with the lead capture layer, you want to essentially So, when somebody comments to keyword, they will either send you a connection request, and what you need to do is you need to set up a tool called Lead Shark. And what that will do is either it will auto-accept their connection, or it will auto-connect with them because they've commented that keyword. They will then see every future post, but also we're going to send them that resource link that they've requested of the lead magnet. That resource link is going to be gated by an email opt-in page, and this is how people get hundreds of subscribers a day. And you're basically just going to say, "Hey, receive it instantly and a couple bonuses if you opt in. You just need to put your email and your name, and you're going to get a ton more value as well." Right? One good lead magnet can easily add anywhere from 300 to 1,000 qualified ICP connections and followers. And you could easily be booking 5 to 10% of these. Um obviously with 1,000 you wouldn't book 10% of them, right? But take 300, for example, like qualified ICP connections. If you even book like 5%, that's like 15 calls from one post. It's not unheard of. And if you run DM follow-ups as well and consistent emails, and also you keep posting to keep them nurtured, like you can imagine the amount of trust that that builds. Now, just to explain why we do comments and not links, the only time I would do links if it was very bottom of funnel and we just want to get direct traffic. With comments we're actually able to get this network where one person comments and if they have a big audience, their whole audience is going to see it and then they comment and they comment and they comment. And that's why our lead magnets go so viral. And especially if your competitors or authorities in your space comment on your post, people are going to see it and they're going to be like, "These guys are looking at this guy and seeing what he has to say, so he must be legit, right?" So it actually builds a lot of trust. Um and actually positions you as an even higher authority than those other people, which is really strong. Um so the next thing is, okay, when we add in all of these things, the formats, when we have the structure, when we have the capturing layer, all three of these combined, at the end of the day what you get out is going to be very high impressions and very high calls booked. The truth is that month one was not 72 calls. I don't remember now. It It had some calls booked, but it wasn't 72. But it's the compounding of the system that happened that allowed us to then book 72 calls in month three. Okay? So, that being said, if you want us to run this fully done for you, we are taking on about five to six more clients right now until I need to hire more people to increase capacity. Apply to work with me with the link in the description. If you're not able to afford a minimum of 3K a month, then we will simply not be able to work together. So, don't waste your time. Um that being said, I'm really happy if anybody did actually watch this fully to the end. And the biggest thing here is going to be taking action. So, whether you need us to help you with that or whether you can do that yourself, that's amazing. Okay? And I will let you guys take it from here.