What's up guys? My name is Briar, I'm a content strategist and I run an agency that gets a quarter billion views every single month and by far the most important thing that you can do in your content is understand topics. This is the pyramid of what makes a great content creator. At the top we have topics and then formats which I will get to in a different video and then number three is curiosity and storytelling and then at the base layer is the ability to understand and analyze data. A lot of people think that hooks are the most important thing and that's actually not true. In fact, two of the other best content strategists in the world, Sam Gota Caleb Ralston, both align with what I am saying right now. Uh Sam has made multiple posts that topics are the number one thing and so has Caleb. And the reason this is so crucial is because in an age where hooks are so strong, or so uh click baity, people don't want to be hooked anymore. I actually lived in Germany for about a month or two and uh I don't know entirely, this is just what my hosts were telling me, is that in the post-modern society because of the propaganda in the 1940s, in nowadays, if you even like smile at someone on the street, sometimes that makes them feel like they're trying to get something from you. If you have a colored storefront with like big paintings, it feels like, "Hey, why is this so colorful? Are you trying to like manipulate me to get into that store?" And there's this extremely extremely low bar of trust and the same thing is happening on social media in 2026. The bar of trust is so low. People do not trust you and they do not want to be hooked. They do not want to be click baited and so ironically, the best hooks are actually non-hooks. They are just good ideas. And the second layer to it is people actually want to uh or excuse me, they actually have this internal um desire, this internal magnet to specific topics. Okay? Every person has three to five things that they are thinking about more often on a daily basis than the other five to 52 500 things that they're not thinking about on a daily basis. And it's our job as content creators to find those three to five things that they are thinking about every single day. It's the buzzwords. It's the keywords. It's the words that whenever we say it to our people in our niche, they kind of just perk up a little bit. That's what we're looking for, and that's what I mean by finding great ideas. And ideas being the most important thing that a content creator can master. So, we're going to get into what makes a great idea. We're going to talk about how I generate endless ideas for my clients. And then the last thing that we'll get into is how to actually contextualize content from the original creator that we might pull inspiration from to our current space. So, let's get into it. All right, the first thing here is what makes a great idea. I use this triple Venn diagram to really explain what what makes a great idea. And remember what we're going here for is psychological alignment. Psychological alignment, all right? And so, when we have psychological alignment, it gives us that, you know, that you're perk up a little bit. The people get excited whenever that keyword hits. And there's three things that really go into it. So, number one is proper TAM. Well, what is TAM? TAM stands for total addressable market. And what total addressable market is is the amount of people that this video can be for. So, for example, if I say, "Hey, if you want to get rich in 2026, you need to watch this video." The TAM of that video is billions. Billions. Anybody who wants to get rich in 2026 will watch that video. You know, you're looking at two to three billion people. Right? Almost everyone on Instagram would want to watch that video except for the people who are already rich or of the people who are unmotivated by money. On the flip side, I could say, "Hey, if you're a sophomore at Arizona State and you're interested in Pilates, we have a class this Saturday." Okay, that's like a few thousand people. Maybe even less than a few thousand people. You have to be a sophomore, you have to be Arizona State, you have to care about Pilates, and you have to be free on Saturday. And so, that is TAM. Like video number one reaches billions, video number two reaches a few thousand. And this is the trick here, guys. I'm not saying that you should go for the highest TAM. I'm saying you should go for the proper TAM based off of your specific goals. I've had two videos. The video who that uh I have that has about a quarter million is how to unlock creativity. Okay? Any creative is going to watch that video. But I have another video that got 10,000 views that was how to build a media team. And that's all business owners that are ready to build a media team. I've made more money off the how to build a media team video than I did the how to unlock creativity video. And that was on purpose. And so every single video, you have to understand am I psychologically aligning my idea to the proper TAM? There are certain ideas that resonate with more people and there are certain ideas that resonate with less people. And it's up to you to actually have the foresight, the knowledge to know is this idea aligning with the goal that I'm going for, with the type of people that I'm going for? Just like the creativity versus the media team. Media team, way smaller TAM. That was my goal. Creativity, way bigger TAM. That was my goal. Both of them served the exact purpose we are going for. So that's the first thing. The second thing is you need to have specific psychology. What do I mean by that? In uh let me give you an example. Whenever I was on the wrestling team at Iowa State, we if you would have came up to us in the locker room and you would said, "Hey guys, today I'm going to teach you how to do a takedown." I would have said, "You're stupid." That's not how wrestlers talk at that level. Okay? I I haven't been taught how to do a takedown since I was in first grade. That's like a weird thing to say to us. Okay? But if you've never wrestled, you might think that's a very normal sentence. You might be like, "Oh yeah, like that's what wrestlers do. They do takedowns on each other." Pause. And instead if you would come up to me and you would have said, "Hey, here is the uh 90-minute blueprint to carb load after a 5-lb weight cut so that you can be ready to wrestle for your first match, I'd be like, "Let's go." That's exactly the specific psychology that I needed in that moment. That's what I was thinking about a lot. For example, in the creator space, the word viral is actually not good specific psychology. There's a lot of creators that are kind of fed up and they don't really care about viral anymore. But, right now as this current state of the video, if you drop the word yapping, people are going to freaking freak out for some reason because the specific psychology around that word holds higher resonance inside of the niche. Okay? So, you have to go on this quest with you and your niche and you and your audience to find these keywords that specifically snipe the soul of your audience that they resonate with. It needs to be specific, tailored to your audience. And I literally think of it as singular or two to three words. Can you go find those words again that make their ears perk up a little bit? They get a little excited whenever they see those words. So, that's the second thing is specific psychology. Now, the last thing is unique and novel. Um, there's this example uh there's a study done by Neil Patel, who's a great marketer and he does studies a lot and he I believe he analyzed 1,000 videos that all had over 100,000 views. And there were two things that equated to and and he was looking at what made these videos do well. And it was a list of, you know, I can pull up the graph here. It was a list of maybe 10 to 15 things. And the only two things that got 100% were hooks and uniqueness. Uniqueness. In an age where the supply and demand, the supply of videos is getting more and more and more and more. People are flooding to these platforms as creators to post, the only way that you are going to win is if you are unique. I know you guys love to copy people. You guys love it. You guys love ripping the exact same video as someone else. I'm telling you it's a terrible idea. It's a terrible idea in the long run. You'll will build a personal brand, and what actually is better is this uniqueness and this novel not novelty, right? And so, what we're the emotion we're going for is for people to be like Oh, I've never heard it that way, right? It's this It's this emotion of hey, I felt it, but you've just explained it to me in a unique way. That's the really the the emotional that the emotion that we're going for out of the audience. So, these are the three things that make a great idea or a topic or a keyword or a buzzword, those are all synonyms to me. As the proper TAM, you do the correct TAM that you're that is set for your goal. Number two, a specific psychology. It is tailored to your audience, and it's not just generic words. It is really really tailored to your audience. And number three, it is unique and novel. You stand out so that you have a hook rate. You have a hook in just the fact that you are unique. All right, let's get into how I generate endless ideas every single week. Literally, probably 400 ideas every single week. Okay, so how do you generate endless ideas? I'm literally not even kidding. You could never ever run out out of an idea ever again. And the bonus point, here is the most important part. It's not just endless idea generation. You're not starting from zero because these are data-backed ideas. So, you're not going from zero to one, and you're not guessing, okay? I don't I think Caleb Ralston has a quote that says content is not a game of guessing, it's a game of knowing. You should already have preconceived knowledge of what is actually going to work. And so, we're not starting from zero and just hoping. We're starting at one, a little bit of signal, and then trying to get to two to three to four to five. That's extremely important here. So, not only are we going to generate endless ideas with this uh exercise, but we're also going to have data-backed endless ideas. And so, there's five inputs, and I really encourage you to carve out 1 hour. I encourage you to carve out a sacred hour a week where you go through these five inputs, and you just have your notes app out or a notebook, and you're just kind of jotting down ideas. You're just brainstorming, working through it collectively. But, our first input is an inspiration list. What does this actually mean? It's 15 to 20 creators that you follow on Instagram or you follow on TikTok. Maybe you've set aside a burner account. Maybe you've built an Instagram burner account and you only follow these 15 to 20 creators. And what you're going to do in this hour, for the first maybe 10 minutes, you're just going to go scroll this new burner account of these 15 to 20 creators. They don't have to be in your niche. Some of them should be, so you can get talking points, but then some of them should actually be outside of your niche that you're going to try to contextualize over to your niche. So, the very first thing is you start with an inspiration list, 15 to 20 creators, and you're just going to scroll your burner account, and you're just going to jot down keywords, ideas, formats. You know, maybe they have a video that goes absolutely nuclear, and you go to the comments and everyone's commenting about one thing, or they're all asking one question. That's a great opportunity for you to go make a video about that one thing. And this is really important, whenever you are looking at your competitor list and you're scrolling their videos, you don't just want to scroll and look at any video. You have to go click on their profile, identify their baseline average views, and see if this video was an outlier to them. Cuz just because a video gets 100,000 views does not mean it's an outlier. If the person's average views is 200,000, this is actually a flop. Right? Now, if their average views was 20,000, then boom, this is a 5x outlier, you can go ahead and rip it. So, the first input is an inspiration list. It's 15 to 20 creators that you're going to scroll through on a burner account, and you're going to just have a notebook next to you. You're just going to jot down keywords, anything that comes to your mind. You're just going to jot it down. Number two is Reddit. I heavily, heavily encourage Reddit for a couple reasons. Number one, people are anonymous on Reddit. They are anonymous on Reddit, which means they say the thing that is actually on their mind. And then number two is there's a lot of dialogue. Reddit, more than anywhere else on the internet, there is conversation between parties. This is really good, because if you make a video about a conversation topic, a conversational topic, people will comment and they will argue or talk to each other in the comments, which then drives your video deeper into the algorithm. So, Reddit, I don't care I don't use Reddit normally. I only use it to find video ideas. And so, you want to do is you want to get 15 to 20 subreddits. Okay, put in the hard work. Here's Reddit. This video is going to get maybe 2 to 3,000 views. One of you is actually going to do this. Maybe two of you is actually going to do this. And it you're going to be the person who actually separates yourself from the rest of the pack cuz no one's actually going to carve out an hour a week. No one's actually going to go find 15 to 20 subreddits. People don't actually do this because they don't actually care about hard work getting to the results. I'm sorry, I'm passionate about it. Go get 15 to 20 subreddits. Let's say you're a gardener. You go to r/hydroponics, r/carrots, r/farmrecipes, r/soil. r/rain. I don't know. r/sunlight, r/seeds, right? You just go find all of these subreddits. Try to find a big following. Try to find a subreddit that has at least 100,000 to 50,000 active members. And at a minimum. And then what you do is you sort by top inside of the Reddit subreddit. You can sort by top and then of the month, of the week, of the year, of the three last three months. And you see all this dialogue. Bonus points, you take it one of the most biggest video or a subreddit conversations. You just copy and paste the whole thing. You toss it into Claude. You don't have to read it all. And say, "Hey, what are people talking about here?" And then boom, you have both sides. Go make a video about it. So, that's number two. Number three is I'm a huge fan of YouTube thumbnails to get videos for short-form ideas. YouTube thumbnails are really, really powerful because this is a complex concept, so bear with me. They are a concentrated point of data. Here's what I mean by that. YouTube thumbnails are where most of a YouTube video's performance gets attributed back to. So, if a YouTube video does well, the odds are it's because of the YouTube thumbnail and the title, the packaging, right? YouTube is called a click-and-watch platform. Right? So, a lot of the value comes from the packaging. So, if a video is an outlier, you don't have to wonder, was it the storytelling? Was it the topic? Was it the edit? Was it how long it was? Was it the points that it brought up? No, it was probably the packaging. It was probably the thumbnail and the title. Okay, again, we're looking for unique things whenever it comes to YouTube thumbnails. There's a lot of YouTube videos that do well that are just how to do XYZ for a beginner, but we're looking for the unique stuff on the thumbnail category. So, uh another great tool you can go download like a software called like one of 10 or TubeLab or TubeBuddy or whatever it is, some of these outlier finders, and just scroll. Get five to 10 keywords, go scroll, soil, go scroll, gardening, go scroll, hydroponics, if you're this gardener creator, and you will see outliers starting to pop up. Again, you're just jotting down ideas. Just jotting down ideas. Just jotting down ideas. The last one is external signal. What is signal real quick? Or actually, the fourth one. Signal is just data that's pointing in a certain direction. It's like a little um it's like a it's like a a lighthouse. It's just letting you know in the darkness that there's a little bit of data over here. A little bit of data over here. What do I mean by external signal? If you have a company that has sales calls, if you have an email team, if you have paid ads, any of these things, if you have a community where people are asking questions, those are all external signals. You could literally go into your last 100 emails, find the headline that has the highest click-through rate, turn that into a hook, and make a video about it. You could download your last 50 sales calls, ask it for what is the most commonly asked question, and you have a video on that. You could go to um your most performing paid ad. Boom, go make an organic video about that. The list goes on. You could go into your community, figure out you do a community call every Wednesday or consulting call every single Wednesday. What do do I feel like I'm always answering? Go make a video about that. That's external signal, and it'll probably do really well. And then there's internal signal. What I mean by internal is the signal actually inside of your account. So, this is um maybe you have comments inside of your Instagram videos. Maybe you have DMs inside of your Instagram videos. Maybe you have videos that get more views than other view other videos. You should add that to your exercise, this weekly practice of analyzing data to spur on ideas. Let's just say you got two videos from each. Two, two, two, two, two. 10 videos. Let's say you get busy one day, you don't record three of them, you still have a video for every single day of the week, and then you repeat this. The problem is people don't do this on a weekly cycle. Nobody carves out the time to go through the exercise, to actually do this. And it is extremely extremely important. All right, real quick, I don't want to spend too much time here, but I want to talk about the idea of contextualization, because what you cannot do is just always steal videos verbatim, cuz you're going to end up stealing a video that's not going to work for your audience. So, this is going to be a high-level concept. I'm not going to get into the tactics here. If you want to get more of the tactics, you can DM me on Instagram. But, basically, there is a journey that has to go on from whenever you find a someone you want to copy or steal from or be inspired from. It's their video, it's the subreddit, it's the YouTube video. You need to go on a journey to understand the context layer of their account, cuz they're posting that video for a specific reason, and it worked for them for a specific reason. But, then you need to figure out why they did it, why it worked, and you have to see and move it over to your account. Will it work for your account? Will it work for you? And then you turn it into a video. It's not always that you just can't do the video if their account is different, or that their their reasoning for it is different. It's just that you have to understand what it was and potentially change the pieces, or only do the pieces that worked for them that aligns with your account. So, let me give you just an example, okay? Female creator wearing a swimsuit talking about motherhood should not be contextualized over and stolen as a hook for a dude in sales. One, she has a hook that the dude can't use. Right here. She also is talking to a niche that doesn't even have the same concept or desire as the dude in sales. And the following could be different, right? And there's different layers to it. So, I want to walk through these four concepts. Number one, the first thing you have to look for is the following. All right, what does that mean? Someone with a massive following can kind of post whatever they want. Right? And it's still going to do good. Right? If you have 3 million followers, they the 3 million followers might actually care about that person's personal story, but you, early in your journey, probably people probably don't care about your personal story. Right? And so, you have to understand that with different following sizes come different types of videos that actually work. So, just because Alex Hormozi does a video that rips and it's about him announcing his pregnancy or whatever, doesn't mean or like this from pregnancy, doesn't mean that that's going to like all of a sudden work for you whenever you're a brand new account. Number two is the strategy. Okay, some creators are going for growth only. Some creators are going for monetization only. Some creators are launching a book and they're trying to figure out what they're going to title their book and so, they're putting out hooks through short-form content to analyze back into what they're going to title their book. And so, you have to understand like, okay, is this person going for growth, but I'm going for monetization? Okay, well, maybe that video doesn't work for me. Or I'm going for growth, but this person's just going for monetization. Okay, well, that doesn't work for me. Right? What is the actual strategy of the account? There's so many layers to it and you have to untangle the reasoning why they posted that video in the grand scheme of their account. Number three is their niche. Going back to the guy-girl example, that's a very clear way. Another great example is like, um, you know, hyper money-motivated niches like side hustles and tax strategy, not super correlating to maybe the more hipster and um, granola niches like spirituality and therapy. Very political differences usually on those two sides of things, and that doesn't necessarily mean that you should copy or be inspired from that specific reason in the video. And then the last thing is their creator. Some creators are just more charismatic than you. And maybe their charisma is what made that video go well. Some of them might just be more intellectual than you, which is what made that video go well. Some of them might just be hotter than you, unfortunately. And that's what made the video do well. And so you have to be honest with yourself. Was it the creator that made the video go viral? Was it their niche that made the video go viral? Was it their strategy that made the video go viral? Was it their following that made the video go viral or become an outlier? And if the answer is yes, that doesn't mean you can't make the video. You just have to potentially subtract that from your reasoning of why you're going to make the video. And so apply it to your account. Can I twist anything to make it fit my account strategy, my niche, myself as a creator, my following? And then I can make the video. All right, I want to end with this. I'm going to pull up Colby who is somebody that I consult, and he has a video going absolutely nuclear right now. He's adding up close to 5,000 followers every 48 hours. And all this video is is just him doing great ideation and then just saying the keywords in a linear fashion. Just watch this video entirely and note that every single word he says in this video, as he starts listing off thoughts, all it is is just what we just talked about. He just found these psychological pockets of his niche that have just driven such high high high high high levels of emotional resonance, and it's leading people to one watch the video, two feel seen and excited. Remember how I keep saying that their their ears just kind of perk up, they get a little bit excited whenever they hear these words. And then boom, they're now feeling like they belong and they're following. So, watch this video just to get the final full understanding of it and that's it for the end of the video. I'm not going to be back. Thanks. >> Let me guess, human nature, building in [music] solitude, studying the world's greatest minds, meta-cognition, collective unconscious, delusional self-belief, business that is also art, neurodivergent, obsessive learning, pattern recognition, [music] long walks to think, genius maxing, speaking your truth through content. If you see this video and you like all these topics, welcome. You found [music] your people.