All right, today we're going to be talking about how to analyze data as a content creator. I see a lot of creators do fall into one of two problems. Number one is they don't analyze data. They just start from their gut. Hey, I think this video is a good idea. I'm going to go make it, which is a bad idea to start. You know, I think David Ogilvy says this, who's one of the best marketers of all time. He says, "Marketing is not a game of guessing, it's a game of knowing." Caleb Rowston says the same thing. Content is not a game of guessing, it is a game of knowing. You need to know if something is going to work before it even starts. You got to have at least some signal, is what I call it, some signal if it's going to work. And then the second thing that they fall into is they lean onto metrics, not data. And so they get obsessed with retention curves, watch time ratios, hook rates, skip rates, share rates, send rates. All of that stuff is great, but it's not the 80/20 rule. That stuff's whenever you are truly crushing content. You're averaging 100,000 views, then you can start kind of worrying about that stuff. But, what I'm going to show you today is going to be way more aligned with how to analyze data as a content creator. It's going to feel way, way, way, way, way more practical, and actually easier. It's going to get you better results from a mental framing. Okay, let's get into it. I got this analogy uh and this story from uh David Perell on How I Write, and he was talking about Chris Rock, one of the best comedians of all time. He says, "Chris Rock, whenever he is getting ready to speak at Madison Square Garden, okay, he has a a key event at Madison Square Garden, he wants to he's going to tell seven jokes. So, that's what these seven blocks represent. They represent seven jokes. He wants to have seven jokes whenever he shows up to Madison Square Garden that all absolutely rip, they crush, everyone has the time of their life. Why? Because Madison Square Garden is the key event. Okay? It's this massive stadium that every comedian dreams of going to. It's probably going to be on Netflix, all that good stuff. And so, how does he get seven video seven jokes that he knows are going to rip? He doesn't just guess. He doesn't just guess, right? And he doesn't just copy other other uh comedians. That's not going to work either. Instead, what he does is he does a series of night shows at smaller events. He does a series of night shows at smaller events in the months prior. And he's What he's going to do is you're going to see what he does is he tests jokes across the journey. And this is where I want you to think about content. So, in night one, he does jokes one through seven, and let's say joke one does good. Then let's say jokes two, three, four, and five do bad, but then let's say joke six actually lands, okay? And then joke seven goes back to bad. Okay. So, what he does is he moves joke one into night two, and he moves joke six into night two. So, now he's going into a second show maybe a few weeks later, and he already knows that these two are going to rip. He already has signal that they're going to rip. And now, instead of testing and trying to fix these, what he does is he adds a whole new five jokes. Okay, so now there's five new jokes that are coming in. So, new joke, new joke, new joke, new joke, new joke. Let's say the third joke of the night uh flops. Let's say the fourth joke of the night flops, but let's say the fifth joke of the night actually lands. And then let's say the sixth and seventh flop. Now, he goes in to a smaller comedy show, and he has his first joke, which comes all the way back from the very first one. He has his second joke, which is from week night one, joke five. And now he has a third joke, which is the fifth joke of night two. So, now he comes into night three with three proven winners. And again, he tests, and one flops. These are all brand new videos. These four right here are brand new jokes. He tests, it flops, tests again, it flops, but then these last two hit. And you're seeing the pattern. What does he do? He moves these five over. So, now he's going into night four with five proven winners. Okay? And let's say one flops, one lands. So, again, arrows going over, going into night five. Everything is dialed except the last joke, and he cleans that up. And just like that, you now have a perfect night at Madison Square Garden. And now there's a difference between this and content, which I'm going to get to in a second. Okay? You cannot do this in content because there's a difference. There's a key difference, which I'm going to get to. But, what you have to realize is content is a game of putting out tests, keeping the winners, discarding the bad. I usually give it three to six attempts. Three Three to six attempts. So, I would actually run these five jokes in the content example three to six times before I fully give up on it. But, when it wins, it gets moved over and it's added to your arsenal. And you keep playing this game, and you discard the ones that don't work. You keep the ones that win. You discard the ones that don't work. You keep the ones that win. You discard the ones that don't work until you have only hitters. And this is how you analyze content. This is what it means to analyze data. Now, here's the problem. We do not have a singular key event like Madison Square Garden. We do not have this point where, "Hey, we only have one final week to make content. We have to make sure they are all ripping." We, theoretically in this example, we play Madison Square Garden every single night, every single week. And so, we can't always just have the exact same seven, and that's it. We can't just get our seven best videos and then coast and then call it a day for two reasons. Number one, our followers will fatigue. And number two, people will copy us. Right? And the life cycle of content online is about 4 to 6 weeks. Right? So, even if Chris Rock were to do this, or we were to do this in our example, these would be outdated in about 4 to 6 weeks. And so, what we want to do is actually something a little bit different. What we want to do is we want to do this just a little bit different. We want to actually create things that have an infinite cycle, an infinite looping system, not this end-all Madison Square Garden. So, I broke it up into basically eight weeks of content, seven tiles, which means seven pieces of content. One piece of content a day for eight weeks. So, again, let's go back to the example. Let's say number one rips, great, and number three rips. Yes, we would probably move these over and test them again in week two. But what we also do is we create an arsenal. We create like basically a backlog, kind of like this concept down here of like a toolkit. Right? Or an arsenal of rippers. And so, these also get moved down here. And we can come back to them. And our goal is to not just get seven, our goal is to get an infinite looping cycle of a bunch, 50, 20, 50, 60, 70 different pieces of content that we can come back and move up into the the winner's circle. Sure, we might we might do this. We might move these over. And then what we might do is we might get, you know, two flops, three flops, and then two more winners. But this is where things start to change. Okay, actually, it'll be the next week. So, now we have four winners carrying over from week one and week two. Let's say we get two more, and we only have one flop. Now, going from week three to week four is where things start to change. Right? We actually don't want to just try to clean up that number one slot. We now have six, theoretically, one, two, three, four, five, six [snorts] proven concepts. Now, what we want to do is actually, going into week four, we want to let off the gas on the proven winners. So, for this example, depending on your goal, this will vary. We might only do four of our six proven winners, and we might retest a brand new set of three right here. Okay? So, remember, we're only doing four of the six. Right? So, there are two proven winners that are just sitting down here in our arsenal, in our toolkit, that are not getting used in week four. Okay? Then, what happens is we have one flop, but then we have two brand new winners. Okay? I'm going to put little stars to represent that. Okay? Little star there, and little star there. Now, these go down into our toolkit. Now, we have eight proven winners. You see how this is starting to work? Now, we go into week five, and let's say we we we're keeping that four-to-three ratio. So, we have our four winners that we pull from this eight. It could have been a completely different four. And then, let's say this time, hey, it's okay. Three flops. Three flops, we were testing at a good ratio. Three flops, that means nothing got moved down into our arsenal, because we're already pulling from our arsenal up to use uh that four right there, and we were testing three new ones, and none of them hit. Okay, well, let's keep the same ratio, a four-to-three ratio of proven winners to tests. We have eight proven winners, we go pick four of them, we test three more, and let's say we get one winner, and then we get two flops. Totally fine. But that one winner, right here, that we tested that was brand new, now goes back down into our arsenal, and we play this game over and over again. We stay with the four-to-three ratio. The four winners, doesn't matter which of these nine, but we're pulling from these nine up into these four proven winners. We're now testing three. Let's say one flops, and then now, let's say two win. Now, that's one, two that go back down into our arsenal. Now, we are at 11 proven winners in our arsenal, and I'll finish out the example. Again, we're staying with the 4:3 ratio. 1 2 3 4, we have three tests and let's say two flop and one wins. This was a new tested video that one comes out here and we end a 8-week cycle not just with seven proven winners, but we have 12 proven winners inside of our arsenal. This is valuable because we have to prevent fatigue from our audience. It would have been terrible for us to repeat this exact same week. We found our six winners and then we do it again and then we do it again and then we would have done it again and then we would have done it again and then by the time we would have gotten to week eight, we only would have had six winners and we would have immediately starting to see fatigue. Our audience would have been like, "I'm getting annoyed. I'm starting to see fatigue." And they are no longer winners. We would have fatigued our winners out of our own audience. That's what you don't want to do. And so whenever you think about content, this is the name of the game and your whole goal in your content life is to just get as much of a toolkit as much of an arsenal as possible with a ratio of ripping winners for growth, but also a consistent ratio of testing winners or testing new content so you can keep building your arsenal and so you don't fatigue your audience. It's extremely extremely important. I see too many creators over index on winners and they just spiral it spiral it spiral it spiral spiral their fatigue into the ground. Okay, so what does a winner actually mean? How do we identify winner? What are we looking at to truly figure out a winner? I'm going to talk about that next. Okay, so how do we actually identify what makes a winner? Just like hey, we had the week one, week two, week three. If we go back and we look at those videos, let's say we had two winners. What actually made those two videos win? I have a four question check I ask myself whenever I'm auditing content and why it might have won. So we have 1 2 3 4 and we go from top to the bottom. So basically like, was it this? Was it this? Was it this? Or was it this? And we go down. So the first one is topic. What was the idea of the video? It was not the hook probably. I I a lot of people will say, "Oh, copy the hook." No, not always. What is the idea? What was the singular concept of the video that is that what resonated with the audience? And I just asked myself, well, how do I know? What was it the thing that's unique about this video? Have I seen other people do it? Have I made this topic in the past and did it do well or flop? Right? So, you're just isolating variables, isolating variables from the equation, right? But, the first one is topic, the second one is the format. What is the visual format? Could that have been what made this video rip. And that's super normal. Maybe you do green screen for the first time and it absolutely rips. Maybe you do a reaction video and that reaction video absolutely rips. But, then maybe you do a whiteboard and it doesn't do very well. Well, you have to ask yourself, was it the whiteboard's fault or was it the topic's fault? Maybe the topic was really bad. Maybe I go try a topic with the whiteboard and see if the format is actually bad. The third one is the actual hook now. And now we're talking the hook, the curiosity that was opened, maybe the location I was in, maybe if I was wearing something or not wearing something, then that could play a big part of it. But, that's like the third thing after the topic and the format. And the hook could play a big part of it. And usually the hook actually combines with the topic and the format. So, you usually have like a relationship. Like, oh, the topic was good, the hook was good. That's why that video worked. And then the fourth one is the actual body of the video. Sometimes you say something halfway through the video that the audience really resonates with. Sometimes you say something 25% of the video that drives all the comments. Sometimes you say something, you tell a story or you give a statistic towards the end of the video that everyone starts to DM you about. That could be signal that the body of the video is actually what did well. So, to backtrack, as we are building our arsenal, you guys remember, we're building our toolkit, we're building our arsenal. We are noting every time a video hits, was it the topic, was it the format, was it the hook, and was it the body? And so, for example, for me, I know because I've been crafting my arsenal, topic-wise, if I talk about counter-positioning, if I talk about data analytics, if I talk about posting frequency, those are going to do pretty well. Those are proven topics that I have I have isolated and added to my arsenal. But on the format side, if I'm in my basement yapping, it's going to do well. Uh if I do a green screen, it does well. You know, I'm a bad example for this, but there's a lot of other creators that do a better job of format diversity. I'm just a heavy yap creator, a heavy talking head creator. And so, my format diversity isn't super intense. And then, um sometimes my podcast clips do well. But what doesn't do well for me, like I know, is object lessons. I've tried to do object lessons. You know what else doesn't do well for me on the format side is these gamifications, the tier rankings. Uh tier rankings do fine for me, but like the brackets and stuff like that. I haven't done those because my audience I think wants me to be more like um educational, so they don't really care as much if I do like a March Madness bracket of like the best hooks in the game. On the hook side, I know that blue is a big color for me. I know my basement is a big hook for me. I know that whenever I am uh I make some form of like I look like I'm thinking, like I rub my eyes, like a nonverbal that's thinking. That stuff does good for me. Whenever I invoke curiosity, which is just a given, obviously. And then whenever I talk about the body, you know, there's a bunch of different things. Whenever I like my personal story doesn't do super well, but whenever I have high humor and stuff like that. You want to get more specific. I Anytime I talk about liquid death, it does really viral. Anytime I talk about the book Cashvertising, I get a lot of comments. All right, those are all parts of a body of a video that I can weave in, you know, 30 seconds in the video and I know I'm going to get a couple comments. It's potentially going to help uh the video do well. So, this is the name of the game. You want to analyze data as a creator, you play this game of going down and testing, swapping out, and keeping winners, and making sure you build your arsenal and you're building it in four layers. You're looking for an arsenal of topics, an arsenal of formats, an arsenal of hook principles, and an uh arsenal of body principles. Uh and again, I want to reiterate, analyzing data and content means way, way, way less about view rates, share rates, like rates, watch time, retention graphs, and all that stuff. This is what it means to analyze data. Optimize for those things on the winner path, and make sure you identify what that actually means to you, and then compound uh the winners into the next week, and then into the next week, and then into the next week. And always, always, always be down to test. Don't ever You should never, ever, ever be doing a week of only winners, unless you're at a very different stage in your journey. You should always have maybe at least a 70/30 split.