Creatives of all kinds always dance
around the topics that will make them
money. There's just something in
creative or freelancer culture that just
almost makes you feel awkward talking
about the things that actually work to
sell. I am here as a creator in the
later stages of my career to tell you
that you need to throw that inhibition
away. [music]
You need to heal your creative
relationship with money and success and
not feel bad about it. Embrace it. Learn
the things that will help you in your
career. And one of those concepts,
perhaps the most important concept, is
the idea of a funnel. The funnel is the
journey a potential customer goes
through with you as they convert into a
sale. In a previous video, I talked
about offers, which is how you structure
what you sell for people to actually
want to buy it. And this is a
complimentary video. You do not have to
have watched that first one where I am
to explain to you what types of
businesses use funnels. I'm going to
actually show you how to build them and
we are going to build some live here.
I'm going to break down every term,
every term you might hear inside this
niche that people talk about and explain
what it is. I'm going to break down the
common types of funnels and talk to you
about how to build them. It's going to
be super informative if you want a
direct toolkit, if you sell services, if
you sell information products, if you
have an agency or if you are a
freelancer. My goal is to make an ultra
valuable video that you will be able to
use for yourself or for clients for the
rest of your career. Let's lock in. So,
first, what types of businesses use
funnels? What are we even talking about
here? So if you sell a service, so for
instance, you are trading design or
copywriting, construction labor,
whatever it is, and you want someone to
buy that service from you. They are
going to go through a funnel to actually
get the sale closed. So what do I mean
by that? You are going to attract people
via social media, advertisers, whatever,
and they are going to go to your
website. Now, on that website, they're
going to have an experience. There might
be just a page that says, "Call me if
you want to buy my services." That's not
a very effective funnel. But instead,
there are multiple options. We're going
to go through a wide variety of them
here today that will say, "Hey, explain
what their business does. It will
potentially give you a free download or
a free consultation or it'll invite you
to an informative call and lead you
through a flow to eventually get you to
a particular end state. This also gets
more refined. People might come in to
buy something lower price and inside the
funnel, you're able to work them up into
something higher priced. This works
equally as well for information products
from master classes to courses to lots
and downloads and all the myriad of
things that people sell online. And why
I really wanted to make this video is
because there's creatives and creators
selling more stuff than ever. You can
get presets, you can get templates,
wallpaper packs, courses, how-tos, as
well as their services, whether that's
coaching or video editing, interior
design, whatever it is. More people are
selling these and they're using really
unsophisticated methods to execute. But
we have all the tools to do this in an
amazing way today. And one in particular
that I'm going to use to walk through in
all these is Framer, which is a website
builder. But now with its latest
releases, you simply just ask in chat to
complete a lot of this or templatize a
lot of this for you. And we'll show you
exactly how that works. Because it used
to be to execute something like this,
not only did you have to be the person
who had the service, but then you had to
actually go get designers for your
landing pages and have people to
actually help you write copy and put all
this together. And you can completely do
this as a oneperson army or as a small
team now in a way that is incredible for
new entrepreneurs. So to start in
section one, I'm going to define all the
key terms you may have heard, you may
likely know, but not know what they are.
And then I'm going to go into an example
funnel to actually show you how they all
work. So first, we have a landing page.
A landing page is literally the web page
that people land on when you want them
to begin your experience with them. So
if you come straight from an ad or from
the link in your bio on social media,
what is the page that they land on? What
does it say? The second thing is the
offers. What I have a whole video about.
This is how you structure what you sell.
Because for a lot of creatives, a lot of
freelancers, they will have some
ambiguous offer. I do graphic design. I
do writing. I do whatever. And that is
not an effective tactic to sell versus
the framework I laid out in that video
is I am a blank that makes blank for
blank. I'm a graphic designer that makes
landing pages for creatives. I'm an
interior designer that does home
renovations in Orange County. You need a
framework to help structure your offer.
Third is what's called a lead magnet.
And to define a lead magnet, we'll
define a lead. So a lead is someone who
comes in who has not bought from your
business, but you retained their contact
information. So for instance, if someone
signs up for a call from you and gives
you their phone number and their email,
but they haven't bought yet, they are
considered a lead. You store leads in a
CRM, customer relationship manager. You
see, HubSpot constantly is a sponsor for
a number of my videos. They are one of
the most prolific CRM. So all your leads
are stored inside of a system and you
can see the last time that they got
called or where they came in from. It's
basically a record management system for
your leads. So a lead magnet is
something that you use to get more
people in the door. So for instance, if
you offer a free download, say you are
an interior designer selling services in
Orange County and you offer the 12step
checklist to prepare for your home rena
and for people to get that PDF, they
need to give you their email address.
That is a lead magnet. And for a lot of
creatives, I highly suggest doing this
for your work. You will notice when I
worked with Van Group, we sold really
high-end premium websites. So when I was
the creative and residents there, we
were doing the websites for people like
Road, we did Kylie's Beauty Company, we
did makeup by Mario, Hexcloud, all these
huge sites, the amazing team there
worked on. And one of the main things I
worked on with them is we did lead
magnets. We did a big ebook on what
luxury means in the modern world and how
that plays out online. We got interviews
with a lot of people to be involved with
it. We did another one on the beauty
industry, how the beauty industry was
shifting and how brands need to show up
with their online experiences to match
it. These were extremely thorough,
wellthoughtout, trend setting content
that we were promoting very hard and
they would bring in thousands and
thousands of leads. And you'll notice
for a company like Vangroup that sells
very expensive six-figure websites, all
you need is a handful of those leads to
convert over time. It's a long sales
cycle. Not everyone wants to redo their
website now. It might be 6 months. It
might be a year. But you bring those
leads in through a piece of
instructional content. You maintain a
relationship with them through emails
and automation, things we'll talk about
here. And over time, a number of them
turn into sales. And this is how every
person should begin thinking about the
funnel of their business. And a good
thing to note is you may not even know
what you need to sell them, right? I put
out lead magnets all the time. I'll be
linking my luxury guide. I have a free
creative strategy course, etc. I'm not
even really selling something super hard
right now. I don't have some big service
offering, etc. But I am accumulating
leads for whenever I do. That's a great
way to think about if you're publishing
content, retaining that audience as you
go. Then you have what's known as a
squeeze page. This is the page your lead
magnet lives on that's designed
specifically to get information out of
it. It's a type of landing page, but the
entire goal of a squeeze page is to get
them to the next page with as high of a
conversion rate as you can. And that
next page is a thank you page where
typically there will be more information
or you'll go into another step of the
funnel. More on that later. That leads
us to an upsell. An upsell is when
someone gets something for free from you
or they buy something at a low price,
then you offer something immediately at
a higher price. So, for instance, if you
just checked out on an e-commerce page
and you bought the creatine gummies and
they say you can subscribe at a
discount, that's an upsell. Or they say,
"Hey, you can add on the Beta Superba
for x amount of cost." That's an upsell.
The same thing happens when you buy
services, etc. Do you want to add on the
audit? Do you want a free cleaning with
that for just $99? We can turn this into
a retainer, whatever it is, those are
all upsells. Then you have this concept
of extras. So, you'll see as you begin
selling things online, there's a
psychology element to it. If you're
giving a freelance service and you also
include all the courses that you've ever
offered or a free community that comes
with anyone who's your client gets to be
a member of the community, whatever it
is, those are all extras people will
throw in to sweeten the price or to get
people excited about participating in
something for them. But the concept of
extras is important when you think about
funnels because when you begin testing
why aren't people buying, you can begin
saying could I put more things in there?
Could I sweeten the offer? That brings
us to a guarantee. Another thing that
helps people convert inside of a funnel
is saying, "Hey, if you don't like my
work, you get your money back." Or, "If
we don't deliver this in 30 days, you
get our money back." And you may choose
to offer one or not, but it's a concept
worth understanding and you'll see a lot
of people do. List is another term you
hear. It's another landing page type
where you may see instead of someone
being like, "Just buy my thing and it'll
be like the six reasons why it's time
for a high converting website or
whatever is where they actually showcase
things in an article format to then get
your information versus just pitching
their product." So, this is a type of
page. An important thing to think about
is that based on how much what you sell
costs, it's likely going to involve a
call. One of the cardinal rules of thumb
you'll see online, there's arguments
about the exact number, but really
anything you sell over about $2,000, you
will convert far more people if someone
gets on the phone and actually talks
with them. There are two steps to this
process, which are important to
understand. Salespeople that exist to
close these calls to basically take
leads, get on the phone with them, and
help sell something, are called closers.
And you will see as you begin to sell
items or sell items for other people, it
usually starts with whoever's actually
the founder, etc. getting on the phone
and doing the closing. Eventually, they
won't have the time to do that. They
will hire a closer. You'll have more and
more people do it. As you begin to get
lots of people doing this, your business
begins to fill up. There becomes two
roles. There's a setter and a closer.
The setter's only job is to get the
emails that come in, find times with
them, send reminders, and make sure
people get on the calls with the
closers. I'm giving you the full
architecture here. It's important
information to understand. On top of
this, we have automation. When someone
becomes a lead, they'll usually get a
series of emails automatically to help
educate them on whatever it is they're
buying, the people behind it, etc. Then
we have this concept of top offunnel and
bottom of funnel. So top ofunnel is
basically getting people to your pages.
If you someone says you need more top
offunnel traffic, you need more overall
interest and attention. We have
thousands of people go to those ebooks
for a van group. That's getting a wide
swath of attention. You're engineering
more top offunnel. That's a big top.
Only a handful of people come out the
bottom, right? It's a high priced offer.
And the bottom of funnel is people that
are ready to convert. They're at the
end. They are qualified leads. A
qualified lead is someone who has the
they are the right company. They have
the right amount of money. They will be
the right type of person to buy. Not
everyone who signs up at your top of
funnel is qualified to make it to the
bottom of funnel and has also expressed
enough interest to be at the bottom of
funnel. Now, the bottom of funnel people
are really, really, really important.
These are hot leads. People that are
qualified to buy from your business.
They're excited. They have downloaded
your content. And so, you pay extra
attention to them and market to them
separately. That's a separate video. And
the last of the terms I'll define here
is what's known as a DM funnel. So now
in the social media era, a lot of this
goes down in the DMs. And before I go
into an example of what this means from
a website perspective, I want to talk
about the importance there. So in cut 30
all the time, we train now thousands of
experts on how to make content. And a
lot of them are generating leads for
their businesses. And one thing I always
call is people be like, I'm making
content, but I'm not getting any leads.
I say, well, how many people are you
DMing with actively? And they'll often
be like, well, not really any. And DMs
are such an important critical part of
social media. Social media is inherently
social, thus the word. If someone comes
in, they're commenting on all your
videos and you're a roofing company in
the Pacific Northwest. I'm using that
example cuz we literally have this in
Cut 30. If those people are in the
Pacific Northwest, you go to their
Instagram profile and it looks like they
own a home, shoot them a DM. Hey, saw
you've been commenting on the stuff
looking at getting a new roof anytime
soon. What neighborhood are you in?
Begin to strike up conversations with
them. It's the same thing with graphic
design, etc. You see someone, you see
what business they work for. Hey, would
love the opportunity to work with blank
someday. Curious what you're working on
over at X and Y. Those conversations,
especially when you begin to do a lot of
them, lead to a lot of high value. And
you can also on Instagram stories,
encourage people to reply to you. Ask
them if anyone's looking for X or Y or
what their opinions are. Begin to build
that rapport with them. But a lot
happens in the DMs. And businesses build
entire funnels around is where DMF
funnel comes from where there's entire
businesses for service related for info
products where they are selling to
hundreds of people in the DMs actively
and they are managing all that in its
own CRM. And so it's worth considering
that if you have social media attention,
you're not converting it. You may need
to lead on the conversations. you may
need to ask. And on the other side of
breaking that down, that barrier you may
have of you saying in the back of your
head, I don't want to do that. Of you
just making that plunge is the clientele
that you want, is the success for your
business that you want. All right, so
here we are inside of Framer. If you've
not been inside of Framer before, we are
on what's called the canvas right now.
And over here on the left side, I have
the pages, all the different pages of
your website you are on. You can click
back and forth between them. Going to
show a few I actually have. On the
canvas itself, you will see the desktop,
tablet, and mobile versions of a
website. You can go over into layers and
see the layers of whatever section you
have to see the actual designs. And over
here on the right side, you have the
agent. So, frame has agents inside of
the businesses now. And you can see the
agent is literally working as we speak.
So, right here, this is a landing page
for uh many of you may have seen I did
this content operations sprint. I did a
week-long paid community thing in July
for people that want to creative direct
their content or learn how to creative
direct content for others. And in that,
I followed a landing page structure. I
talked about the problem that people are
facing. I talked about what the solution
is. I provided what's inside of the
program that we have, who exactly is
for, what the details are, the cost,
went through the FAQ, and the info
there. Now, I just asked the agent to
redo this design style for me in a more
particular type of graphic style, which
it just did. We'd had a graphic designer
do it, but I wanted it a bit more in a
Swiss grid style on the mobile. So, in
this right end, you can see here, I
quite literally just like design a new
version of this landing page, use all
the same copy, but with better section
layouts following a Swiss grid style,
and it will literally create a new page
and design those for me. And so, I call
this out because this is an amazing
development if you are ever putting
these types of landing pages together is
you can literally just ask for it. So,
what do I mean by this? Let's build a
lead magnet download page. So, I started
a new page right here. I go over to the
agent on the right. I'm literally going
to type in I'm making a landing page for
a free ebook about interior design. I
need a title, subtitle, placeholder for
a video.
>> 346 [music]
minutes later,
>> use my existing
website styles. So I typed that in there
and it is going to create these while we
keep going through this video. And so
you will notice if you have a design
project, so for instance, I have paid a
designer to create the core of this
website. So, I already have a beginning
look and feel on here. You can solve
that with templates if you do not want
to have a designer do your own thing.
But once you begin to have that visual
identity, creating landing pages is as
easy as this. I'm going to take this
framework they have. I'm going to ask
for any changes and I'm just going to go
through and insert all my own copy into
this to finish it off. That is going to
be the extent of the work that I do. So,
I'm going to have this this here will
finish automatically in the next few
minutes. I will spend 20 minutes going
through copy and adding images to it.
And I will have the foundation of my
funnel. So, any of you who have done
this before know how painful this was in
a previous error to actually go build
all of this out. And if I was more
prepared for this, you'll see it just
asked me a question. What kind of
calendar link do I need? So, I can use a
placeholder. I'll paste it or use the
current one that's already on my
website. I say use the current one. You
now have the ability to really bang
these out. And so, this means a lot. If
you have your own business, excellent.
You can create all kinds of variations.
And look here. Look at this is literally
getting designed like in front of our
eyes. And they're using placeholder copy
in here, right? But design a home that
feels like you. get the full ebook,
shows me where they're going to add my
video, four ways to make a room feel
finished. It's building this out like in
front of our eyes, then we'll build out
from desktop to mobile, etc. from there.
I still get like shocked by this, but
you now have the ability to bang these
out for your own business to test these
things, have no excuse to try stuff and
put it live. But also if you're offering
services to other people, if you sell
things to creators or you want to be
able to create landing pages and funnels
as part of the services package you
offer, if you're a social media manager,
if you're a strategist, if you're a
creative director, literally the world
is your oyster and you can charge quite
a lot because the ability to actually
the skill set to actually make it is
commodified. But the ability to get in
front of the client, to have the idea,
to pitch it, to understand this whole
system I'm articulating, that is the
value. And so the example how this
funnel would actually work in its
entirety is I would have that front page
like I mentioned in the description.
You're going to get a lead magnet
download. Once you complete that, I have
an upsell on there. Hey, do you want to
have a consultation? You want to get on
a call with me right now and we can talk
about a bathroom renovation if you're
interested in that? That goes on the
secondary page. If they confirm that
call, there's going to be a third page
that says, "Okay, let's get ready for
the call. Before you come, here's some
information I'd love you to have on
hand. You can expect to have Johnny on
the call. Here's an introduction to
Johnny. You can find his social media
right here. In the first 10 minutes,
we're going to talk about this. The next
20 minutes, we're going to talk about
that." You're going to get a way higher
likelihood of people to show up to your
call if you've now followed this funnel
structure. And for most people, for 90%
of work you're selling, this is a
perfect structure. Give someone
something free. Offer them the ability
to do something else on top of that. If
they opt into doing it, give them a
bunch of information about how it's
going to work. Now, at the same time
they're doing this, you can trigger
email automation. So, here in Framer, I
can tie this into ConvertKit. I can set
an automation in ConvertKit based on the
trigger of when they fill out this form.
And you can see here they're building
out the tablet and mobile versions of
this here, too.
>> [laughter]
>> Yo, it's just crazy because the uh I
used to like do this for people for
money and thinking about the hours of my
life that are sunk into it is uh versus
just like watching in front of your
eyes. It's crazy. But now that we've
looked at this, let's actually bake down
the different types of funnels that we
have so you can get an understanding of
what all these are. And there's a ton of
different ones out there. You can Google
types of funnels, but I'm going to give
you a handful I think are the most
valuable for you to have in your
toolkit. So, first, like we mentioned,
is the lead magnet funnel. Easiest one
to have out there. Every business who is
trying to generate interest online
should be doing this. Why? If people are
trying to quantify social media, why
should we do more social media? Or how
do we quantify sales? Well, you can
certainly quantify leads and emails that
are on your list. So, using lead magnet
flows for that or having that as a call
to action in your content to get
something free is an awesome way to
begin applying metrics to social media
and automation and selling that way is
probably its own video. Second type of
funnel is a tripwire funnel. A tripwire
funnel is when you sell something super
low price, $1, $20, and then immediately
present a higher value order right after
that. So, you will see this a lot. One
of the originals of this is when people
would do free plus shipping books. You
probably saw that really popular in like
the 2000s where you get a book for free
plus shipping. You pay $299. So you go
to the web page and you plug it in, you
pay your $299, you get the book and
immediately on the next page it's like,
"Oh, do you want the software too or do
you want all the extras? Do you want to
be able to get the $79 package?" That is
what's called a trip wire funnel. But
it's important because it's different
than just a lead magnet because if
someone's already spent the money,
you've already charged a card. The
information is already in the system.
You've broken down a psychological
barrier. You've already basically made
an achievement that makes the second
purchase easier. And you'll see there
are a lot of service-based businesses
that do something like this. And you
will see a lot of agencies and people
who have basically a break even entry
point. You offer some like pretty
straightforward service, landing page
creation, your first 20 social media
ideas, whatever to kind of get people in
the door. You'll sell a lot of this
lower price product. Very similar to
kind of what you see in ecom and stuff
too, right? We may have like a loss
leader to get people in the door. Then
you grow their average order value,
their lifetime value as a customer over
time. Same thing can function here where
you sell someone something cheap. You
may not even make any money on it, but
then you're immediately introducing them
to a secondary thing that is called a
tripwire funnel. A great way to
conceptually think about this also is
with advertising an ad spend. A lot of
people will do this to basically break
even on their ad spend. This is a cheat
code. So, for instance, if you have a
$99 product, but you end up selling a
$5,000 service, if you're advertising,
selling people the $99 thing, those
people become leads for the $5,000
service. You know what your leads are
worth, you're going to convert ximum
over time, but you make your money back
on your ads in the $99 sale that you
just made. you now can spend way more on
your advertising and you'll see there
are tons and tons and tons of businesses
that do this. All right. Yeah. So, this
is uh let's check this out. They also
built the thank you page too. So, if I
look down here in Framer, I love having
this like happen in the background. So,
we have the layout we have here where I
could go fill in my copy and my images
etc. That's done in my styles on desktop
and mobile. I then have the thank you
page just like I described it where I
would have my video here and then I will
have my book a console call that will
happen right there. Again, this is
literally the templates for these are
being added right here. And to give you
some context, say you were to add in the
graphics. Um, you may have seen in one
of my prior videos, I provided the
graphics and a layout for this. This is
what's called like a bento style layout
where I literally provided a screenshot
of a bento style website and said, "Hey,
here's the assets. I want me in the
middle. I want this video over here. And
then I want here's images of my products
I want to have around here. And I want
to have this form call to action."
That's what I asked for. And it built
the fully designed layout, too. So, I
showed templates before cuz I'm the kind
of person that likes to see a template
and then fill it in. That's just the way
my brain works. Not everyone is. But
when I came prepared and said, "Hey, add
these images. Add this call to action.
Add placeholders for testimonials and an
FAQ below." It built this entire thing
too. Then I asked for it to give me
options for rollover effects. And you'll
see the rollover effects here. So you
can begin even having that light nuance
of asking the agent to do things like
create X effect versus ever dealing with
like the interfaces etc. And if you've
ever had any questions about like, oh,
does this actually work like this? I'm
doing it in front of you. You are kind
of watching it come to life. This is the
exact flow in framework. All right. So
we talked about lead magnet funnel. We
talked about tripwire funnel. I'm going
to talk through two more. I'm going to
talk through some tips for organizing
this workflow. I'm going to end with
some bit of how this is important, how
you apply this to your career. So, the
next important type of funnel is what
we're going to call a webinar funnel.
So, what this is is you get people to a
landing page to then get them on a call,
a oneto- many call, where someone is
going to get on and they're going to
pitch the product or the service to a
wide amount of people. This is great
especially if you don't have the ability
to have one-on-one with a setter or a
closer like we talked about before or
you're going to do that afterwards or
you have a really charismatic person
who's excited to pitch the business.
Getting them on with a big group and
answering any questions and going
through a presentation is an awesome
flow that just works. I do a community
call every month. Some months I'm
saying, "Hey, here's the next cut 30 or
hey, I'm offering this program or
whatever." Some months I'm just hanging
out, but we follow that exact flow here.
And you can see this is the framework
layout for my page here where literally
I kept it super simple. Sunday, June
7th, the creative direction shift puts
your info in here. Here's the three
layouts. It's a simple flow and then
everyone gets all the information, all
the reminders via email and text
message. And the next one is what's
called a VSSL or video sales letter
flow. This is when people want to tell a
really persuasive story. So basically,
instead of putting a ton of information
necessarily like on the page, expecting
people to read it all, you will try to
sell primarily in one long video that
follows very specific beats. Usually
there'll be a very specific problem.
Then there'll be a very unique
framework. There'll be information about
why the person is the right person to
help solve that framework. They will
walk through a number of objections and
there'll be a call to action. And so if
you have something that requires a lot
of explanation or you have someone who's
really good on video, I'd highly
recommend trying the VSSL funnel. I
would just Google video salesletter
structure and you will see there's all
these web pages that will break down the
exact flow that you write within. And we
are now in the amazing world where you
can take all the pitches for your
product. You can put that into a chat
GPT project and you can say, "Hey, can
we try to get some VSSL scripts with
this framework?" you can go back through
and re-edit and will take you a fraction
of the time for having to do these
things from scratch. All right, so that
was there's a lot more funnel types, but
those are the ones it's worth just being
aware of. You will see these in the
world now that we've talked about them.
So now, how do you organize all this? So
what I like to do is I will have
screenshots of landing pages that I see
whenever I'm sold something. I click on
ads all the time. I will go look at what
they do. And those are all the
frameworks that you paste in to the
framework agent here and you say know
when you saw me saying title, subtitle,
paragraph, video, next section, I want
three testimonials. Next section I want
a FAQ. That is just following one of
those formats. So you literally take it
and you type it and you break it down
inside the agent. You get your landing
page created. I would be saving I would
have a swipe file of those. Whether
that's a folder in your Safari or your
Chrome or whether you're actually doing
those breakdowns and saving them in
whatever docs that you use, I would be
keeping those. And what's great is you
can literally screenshot those and then
drop them into the agent and be like,
"Recreate me a landing page like this.
Here's the information for my product."
And it's going to give you the draft.
And you do the same thing for testing.
You can test longer landing pages with
more info, shorter ones that get
directly to the point, light mode versus
dark mode, having a video or not. Types
of messages. You've seen in previous
videos I've talked about is every offer
that you have, you should have something
that is a human-driven narrative where
you're talking through from your
perspective. You should have an
evidence-driven, really databacked
approach. You should have a direct
response really finding the problem
people are trying to solve, attaching
real numbers to it and pitching them.
Those are three very unique angles for
copy. I'd be testing those on your
landing pages. The other important thing
that you have is you have access to all
these framer landing page templates, a
number of which are actually free. This
Swiss website that I have bought is one
of them and an excellent one for like
high design or if you're showing off a
portfolio. And again, once you have
these and you have these styles, you
just pop into the agent on the side and
put in your text, etc. You already have
something. So the cheat code here is to
find the landing pages that you like,
use the free ones or buy them. There are
a number of amazing creative ones from
here. This is an excellent agent one
that they have and just ask for what you
want in the chat. You already have a
visual basis, fonts, etc. for there. It
basically supercharges your ability to
have templates from, oh, I can just fill
this in to now you basically have a
canvas you can work from and then use
the integrations. Again, um there's a
lot of different emails. I love kit to
start out. I have no relationship with
them or beehive or anybody, but using
kit is plugs really quickly into framer
and they are free up to a couple
thousand subscribers and I believe like
one core automation flow so you can get
up and spinning pretty quick with them
and that will help you get this full
funnel from all the different pages you
have to what emails are they getting.
And to give you a quick overview of what
that looks like when someone signs up
for something you should get an
immediate email verifying what they
signed up for, introducing you as the
person behind it and whatever they
should expect next. I would follow up
likely the next day with more
information. Easy win is take your most
popular videos or content you have on
the subject and give it right there.
Literally be like, "Hey, know you signed
up for X and Y. Here's some of our most
popular things that walk through Z." And
give them that email right there. And
then continue nurturing and educating
them about what's going on through
email. But at least set up those first
two to be giving people more
information. Those are easy wins. And so
to finalize this off, I want to talk
about the importance of this cuz again,
creatives almost feel guilty talking
about this stuff when it makes the
entire world around us work. I work at a
huge agency now. We're not huge. If
you're 100 plus people or you're
utilizing these exact tactics to sell
services, all the people that you know
that are growing, all the people that
are selling those individual items, they
can improve their sales, you can improve
your toolkit. If you just understand how
the world around you structurally works,
you aren't afraid of doing some of this
work. And I get it. This work sucked. I
used to do a bunch of this because
honestly, I really wanted to make the
most money I could with the time I had,
not cuz I loved it or enjoyed it. But
now, if you look at how easy this is to
be able to do it in the agent era, this
now really becomes just a matter of your
own agency. Are you willing to put in
the light modicum of work it takes to be
put to actually make a difference in
your business or your client's business?
And I cannot tell you if I look at over
time the amount of websites and landing
pages and things that I designed and put
together throughout my entire career as
a side hustle and what all that money
added up to over time and the ability
has given me in my life to do different
things. It is immense. I will do a CRM
video one day because this is very
focused on like pages and the general
ideas of this. But how you manage those
contacts and what that looks like and
how you grow with that over time is
another ultimate superpower. Right? I
have whatever it is 70 80,000 email
subscribers now. Not some massive list,
right? But everyone is very interested
in marketing, creative direction,
digital marketing just off that email
list. I will never have to have a job
again. I can always go out and solicit
clientele from that email list for any
service or offering I have. And did I
get that overnight? No. If I'm working
I've been working on that longer than
I've been making content. I had an email
list probably 2 3 years before I started
making content on here. Honestly, I had
other emails I tried earlier and just
never stuck with. If I kept that going
over time, it would have been even
easier. But if you think of say I
started that six years ago, it's a
realistic time to get to that level.
Even if you had 5,000 emails over 6
years, you now always have the ability
to kickstart your new thing. CRM and
email are just massively important and
it's the kind of thing no one will click
on a thumbnail title of, but will change
your creative career. So, listen to me
on there. This video was in partnership
with Framer, who I could not more
heartily endorse. Framer has completely
changed how we work inside Cut30, how I
work on my own personal website, how I
work with client businesses. Is an
excellent piece of software. The agents
are incredible. I cannot recommend them
enough. Learn more about them in my
profile and there's an offer there for
you to get started as well. As always,
thank you so much for watching.
[music]
