If I had asked people what they wanted,
they would have said faster horses. This
famous quote gets thrown around by
founders as an excuse not to talk to
customers. But here's the irony. If
customers had actually said faster
horses, they would be telling you
something really valuable about a big
problem worth solving. Talking to
customers is still the fastest way to
learn what people want, but you have to
know how to talk to them. That's what
I'm going to share with you today. Hi
there. If you're new to this channel, my
name is Ash Moria. I'm an entrepreneur
and author and the creator of the
popular one-page business modeling tool,
Lean Canvas. On this channel, I share
systematic strategies and techniques for
starting and growing a business. So,
today I'm going to show you why three of
the most common approaches to
understanding customers fail and then
share a much better way to uncover what
customers actually want. The first
approach is what I call the default
founders way. It's built on the premise
of release early and release often,
which is where I started too as a
founder. The basic idea is to quickly
build a product or better yet a minimum
viable product or MVP, put it out in the
world and then wait for customer
feedback to roll in. Now, this approach
used to work at a time when barriers to
entry were higher and customers had
fewer product choices. Going back a
decade, you could afford to give your
customers a halfbaked alpha or beta and
then iterate with them to create
something better. But when you launch a
product this way today, you get back
crickets because customers today have
many more choices competing for their
attention. When they encounter a
halfbaked product that doesn't
immediately deliver value to them, they
don't turn into beta testers. They
instead ghost you and switch to another
product. Without direct customer
feedback, you're left guessing on how to
fix your product. You try one feature
after another in search of that mythical
killer feature, which after a while
feels like throwing spaghetti on the
wall to see what sticks. Flying blind
without customer feedback is not an
optimal strategy for building what
people want. The second approach is to
directly ask customers what they want.
This seems very logical on the surface,
but here's the problem with this
approach. Customers struggle to
articulate what they want, especially
when it comes from innovative products
they have never seen before. This is
where the faster horses sentiment comes
in. Customers didn't ask Henry Ford for
a cheaper automobile or Steve Jobs for a
smarter phone with no physical keyboard
or the Uber founders for a way to order
a taxi from their mobile phone. Most new
ideas start out a little crazy and don't
look or sound like anything people are
used to. But this still doesn't mean you
shouldn't talk to customers. You just
have to know what to talk to them about.
To channel Steve Jobs, it's not the
customer's job to know what they want.
Customers are experts at telling you
what frustrates them, but not so good at
inventing new solutions. That's your job
as the entrepreneur. So, what about
asking them about their problems
instead? This is certainly a better
approach, but it too has its fair share
of landmines and pitfalls, especially
when your goal is trying to validate
problems you think your customers have.
This usually involves asking customers
to rank a list of problems on a scale of
importance or urgency. But there are
several issues with this approach.
First, if the problems on your list
don't resonate strongly with them, you
hit a dead end, get stuck with nothing
else to say or ask them. The interview
is over. Second, when you lead with
problems, you cast a spotlight on
specific issues which tend to exaggerate
the customer's response. This is known
as the spotlight effect. You're biasing
their answers simply by bringing up the
problem. And third, we are all prone to
confirmation bias. We tend to hear what
we want to hear when validating
problems. We often selectively filter
information that confirms our
preconceived notions about what
customers want. I've seen many founders
walk out of a customer interview
convinced their solution is exactly what
customers want only to then spend the
next 6 to9 months building something
nobody really wanted in the first place.
So if these three common approaches
don't work, is there a better way? Yes,
there is. And it starts with
understanding something I call the
innovator's gift. The innovator's gift
is a simple but powerful concept. And
here's the basic premise. New problems
worth solving come from old solutions.
Think about it. All innovation is about
solving problems. But truly worthwhile
problems don't appear out of thin air.
They come from the limitations,
frustrations, and pain points of
existing solutions. Let me give you an
example. Why did we switch from cassette
tapes to CDs? Or if you're too young to
know what a cassette tape is, put
yourself somewhere else on this timeline
and ask the same question. These are
massive billiondoll switches. And it
wasn't because of sound quality. First,
most people don't have the ear to
distinguish the sound quality
differences across these different
solutions. But more importantly, while
sound quality technically went up when
we moved from cassettes to CDs, it went
downhill from there. So, there were
different reasons at play. Cassette
tapes were just fine until CDs came
along and broke the cassette tape by
making a problem that was already there.
Rewinding and forwarding to find your
favorite song a problem worth solving.
CDs allowed you to instantly jump to any
track, which can be really cool when
throwing a party or when you want to
play that one song in the moment. The
reason we then switched from CDs to MP3
players wasn't again because of better
sound quality, but the ability to first
download and then eventually buy the
songs that we wanted and not the entire
album on a CD. The reason we switched
from MP3 players to the cloud was
because a,000 songs in our pocket that
Steve Jobs promised us on the iPod was
no longer enough. We now wanted access
to 40 million songs in the cloud that we
don't even want to own, but rather rent
on demand. This led to the rise of
streaming services. Do you see the
common thread here in each of these
switching stories? In each case, the new
technology that gained traction didn't
address new problems no one cared about,
but rather specific problems with the
old technology that were familiar,
specific, and compelling. So, how does
this help with uncovering what customers
want? If new problems worth solving come
from old solutions, the best way then to
uncover these new problems is by
studying how people currently use these
old solutions that you intend to
displace. And here are the steps. Step
one, target customers of the old way.
Instead of trying to find people who
might be interested in your new
solution, target people who are actively
using popular existing alternatives like
the music example above, note that these
existing alternatives will most likely
look nothing like your product. Your
true competition is usually not some
shiny startup down the street that no
one is using, but rather the current
status quo solution. Email and
spreadsheets have killed more startups
than other startups. Step two, study
when, why, and how they use the old way.
This here is the key step. Don't ask
them what they want. Don't even ask them
about their problems directly. Instead,
ask them to walk you through when, why,
and how they use their current solution.
Get them to tell you stories about
specific instances when they used the
product. In my book, Running Lean, I
provide a comprehensive step-by-step
guide for conducting these customer
discovery interviews, including a
detailed interview script that you can
follow. The book walks you through
exactly what questions to ask, how to
ask them, and in what order, so that you
can systematically uncover the insights
that matter most. The script isn't just
based on theory. It's the exact process
I've used to launch best-selling books
and dozens of products like the Lean
Canvas. When developing the lean canvas
especially, I didn't start by asking
entrepreneurs what they wanted in a
business planning tool. Instead, I asked
them to walk me through when, why, and
how. They used business plans. What I
discovered was that most entrepreneurs
hated writing 40-page business plans,
but felt obligated to do so. They
weren't creating them for themselves,
but for investors and stakeholders. They
would waste weeks writing these
fictional plans only to have investors
then skim their executive summaries.
These pain points led me to create a
lightweight business plan alternative
that fit on a single page, took just 20
minutes to create, and most importantly
was built for founders and not
investors. So, how do you uncover the
right pain points during an interview?
Contrary to popular belief, real
problems worth solving don't sound like
obvious save the planet type of
problems. They come disguised as pet
peeves, struggles, or workarounds. As
customers tell you their stories, listen
carefully for pet peeves. These are
small annoyances that customers have
grown accustomed to but still find
frustrating. Number two, struggles.
These are more significant pain points
that make using their existing solution
difficult or timeconuming. And finally,
workarounds. These are creative
solutions customers have developed to
overcome the limitations of their
existing alternatives. This interviewing
approach isn't focused on validating a
list of problems, but rather discovering
using a backdoor technique potential
problems worth solving by picking up on
these little cues. The magic of this
type of customer interview is that
people are more alike than unalike. It
only takes 10 interviews for patterns to
quickly emerge. And when you hear
customers describe the same pet peeve,
struggles and workarounds over and over
again, it's time to put your
entrepreneurial cap on, not to build
your solution. And here's another
counterintuitive insight, but instead to
sell your solution to these same
customers before you build it. Yes,
using a demoell build versus a build
demoell approach, which is something
I've covered in other videos. This is
the only way I know to go from hoping
people will buy your product to knowing
that they will. Now, if you're more of a
technical founder like me, the word sell
probably makes you cringe. But did you
know that founderled sales are the
highest converting type of sales? And
this is a totally learnable skill. If
you want to learn how, check out this
video over here. Thanks for watching and
until next time, take
