So when people like Iman fly me in to do launches for them and they have me sell on their behalf, I'm speaking this with zero prep, reading the audience in real time and and giving it back to them. So I've gotten to the point now where if you can speak copy, you can make more money than if you can write copy. And I'm using hypnotic language, too. And very few copywriters write that way, which is insane to me. That's why I'm the most quoted person in Alex's book on the topic. and he's you know studied me on how to develop offers. So we should have two models. We should have the general model of the things psychologically that humans respond to. So the psychological triggers that make people buy or that prevent people from not buying and I have that down cold. My most powerful lever is I try to put visibility to that which is invisible. And I think that's the best lever of copyrightiting because often times like some of my biggest bangers that we've done out there, Matthew, is I I make very small promises of increase of growth, but I remove all of the risk of where you could lose. So I cap the upside significantly, but I practically remove the downside and we make smaller claims than our competition and we get higher conversion rates. >> This is deep stuff and I find this fascinating. How do you do research for like the market research versus like the target avatar research? >> I'm taking what is already working incredibly well and then trying to find what I call the deeper truth of the market. I think Blair Warren has the greatest synthesis of copywriting that I've ever seen. Encourage their dreams, justify their failures, allay their fears, confirm their suspicions, and throw rocks at their enemies. So if you actually approach it from that perspective, research becomes much easier. When I started copywriting, I work with clients and I was miserable. Now I charge $5,000 an hour. >> When did you make that shift? >> So oftent times copywriters have certain lacking and blind spots that prevents them more than their skill as a copywriter, I think, from progressing in this business. I've hired over 20 copywriters in the last year. So I can tell you firsthand about the effectiveness of certain copywriters and the limitations of others. So here's what copywriters are missing. Hey Jason, nice to have you back. >> Matthew, it is nice to be back. Last time I saw you, we were in South Africa and you had just done some badass karaoke. >> Yeah, it was that was a fun one. You did um some pretty good rap there as well. >> Yeah, I went back to my old school days before I got into business. I was a rapper. >> I actually want to talk about that today. I actually have a question about that um in a moment. But be before I get into that, you know, typical copywriting. Before we get into that, you know, uh, since since our last conversation, your clients have generated like over hund00 million. So, >> conservatively. Yeah. >> Yeah. Right. It's been more than that. It's like a lot of a lot of money's been, you know, going into the space and you've been working with some really big names. It's really cool. What have you um what have you been like working on, learning, insights, stuff that you've been up to? >> Yeah. And this is a copywriter's dilemma. Once you have once you have results like these, they be they don't add to the persuasive power of the messaging because people can't conceptualize hundreds of millions of dollars. So, I tend to not even track it anymore. Uh, but I'm personally working on being a beginner again because I've been trying to crack social media really ineffectively for the last couple of years and I've gotten very frustrated about it. So, I've really broke it down to first principles and now applying copywriting to this format and learning it firsthand so I can lead my team uh in the process of it. So, I spend an insane amount of time, Matthew, on the stupidest things that I'm embarrassed to admit, but you have to humble yourself back to the beginner uh framework again because I know nothing about the context of social like I do for webinars or like I do writing a VSSL or like I do writing normal copy or email copy. It is so amazing how slight differences in the media can account for large differences in the application of the technique. I mean, a hook is a hook. Whether you're writing a webinar, a VSSL, an email, an ad, a hook is a hook. However, how you hook in social is different, significantly different than how you hook elsewhere. Uh, so I've been learning so much. It's so excited and we've hit some bangers. Like we have one that's going out right now that is I think it just hit a million in the last 4 days from scratch on a reel. Uh YouTube videos are performing I have a very funny story about that one we can tell here in a in a minute or two. Uh we just published a YouTube video that is outperforming 400% better than what we traditionally see. So we are in the right path but uh man it's it's tough out here. um the beginner phase. I was um writing a lot of copy, you know, email copy and then when I got into um producing videos on YouTube, then it's then I'm I'm in the beginner phase and it's I struggle in that phase a lot because when you're competent at something, you want it to be done fast. You want to get you want to execute it, do it properly, get it done fast. But the beginner phase, it always feels like for at least for me, it always feels like I'm going slowly. But I just have to remember like, hey, that's just the process of being a beginner. But, you know, we need it, right? We need to keep getting better at stuff otherwise we're not going to be able to, you know, continue to evolve with the market and what we need. So, >> yeah, to that effect though, I've hired over 20 copywriters in the last year to help assist me with all the areas of my business. Uh, so I can tell you firsthand about the effectiveness of certain copywriters and the limitations of others. uh some of the challenges we've ran into >> uh as a copywriter. If you want to get hired, >> then I can give you strategies on that. Our last podcast, by the way, Matthew, I got a lot of people that listen to that that wanted to come work for me. So, I was really excited about that. Uh we hired a couple. I don't think they stuck, though. >> What do you think uh what do you think makes the stick? We were talking about critical thinking just a little bit before. >> Yeah. I mean, critical thinking is the higher level of this. So like this is how you move up fast and >> you know have more impact, make more money, but the baseline is really it's like the social skills and the soft skills which I was thinking about this this morning. I think copywriters are at a deficit in general because generally if you're going to be a copywriter, you probably don't have very sharp social skills in general. I know there are exceptions. Uh when I started in copy, you know, I wrote my first sales letter in 2006, 20 oh my god, 20 years ago at this point. U I didn't have much social skills and I didn't need them because I I could lock myself in a room and write and read all day and research all day. So it was nice not to have social skills. If you're really social, you typically become a salesperson and that's how you persuade. You don't do it in print, you do it in person. So oftent times copywriters have certain lacking and blind spots on the social scale and that that prevents them more than their skill as a copywriter I think from progressing in this business. So there's just some basic things like if I like I I have some idiosyncratic behavior as all high achievers do and it doesn't make logical sense and I know it doesn't it has no effect on the project or the outcome. Uh but if I tell you that I want it this way and you don't give it to me this way, I get very angry and that becomes a problem. Now here's the context. So if we want to think critically, here's what copyriters are missing. I have my whole day blocked from start to finish. I have maybe a spare minute or two here, but not really. And so I have to shift my context constantly. I have to go from this to that to this. And so when I sit down and allocate a very narrow window of time to review copy, I need it to be reviewable in the easiest way possible. And if you don't provide that to me, even if it's good copy, I can't review it and get feedback on it. Um, and that slows me down significantly because if I can't get to that, that affects the next thing that I'm doing after you. That affect affects the production cycle of everything we have in Q. And it's a bigger deal than you would think. Uh so it's it's a challenge that copywriters don't step back and say >> what's my role in the bigger picture here. Copywriters just focus so much on I need to write this copy under these specific guidelines without thinking deeper of how does it fit into the bigger picture. >> Yeah. I mean there's a lot of copy I'm reviewing that's bit of a mess. you know, it's like this big long document and it's like, "Yeah, here's the copy here." But then there's all this other stuff before. It's like, is that is that stuff I'm am I reviewing that? What is that? Is that your research notes? Could you put that >> I'll tell you like a stupidest example because I have five copywriters that I'm reviewing all at the same time. Um, and they'll put the Google doc and they all have different fonts. And that's hard for me. I'm like, it needs to be aerial. It needs to be 14 point because my vision I'm old, you guys are young, right? I need a bigger thing and I need it to be organized for the different pieces of copy. They all need to be a H1 tag in a Google doc. So that way on the side when I look at the side I can go one, two, three, four, five and I can click on them. Uh and they need to be page broke. So that way I don't see script four uh in the middle of the page with script three. It needs to be on its own page. So you have to use an actual page break in this. Uh and this is a style guiding and you know it's like we don't have a formal one laid out yet. We probably should, but if some copywriter wanted to win my heart and give my favor, they would proactively on their own see what I'm saying and build a style guide and say, "Hey, Jason, I thought maybe this would help." Uh, and then yeah, so these are just silly little things that I see copywriters missing because they're so focused on the copy. But if I, as the owner, I can't consume the copy and and be able to give feedback on it, it doesn't matter how good it is. just this is this is just such a frustration for me as well. I've seen this so many times. I you know what the thing is you get so much better as a copyriter when you just take pride in the structure. I think like even the small stuff like when I'm struggling with writer's block I just sit and format the doc you know that's what I used to do a lot. I'd sit there and be like okay headline headline headline connect to the outline page break page break. Then you build out this doc and then when you start writing you're writing in a structure like you can move stuff around. You're like okay this goes in email four. You just click email four, you move it there. So I think a lot of copyriters that, you know, just just take take pride in the structure of the build a document like I had a master document for most of my freelance clients. In that document, I'd have all the different documentation for each department. And I think that that really helped me stay structured. So if you if you're watching this, like take take control take control of the of your work. This is your desk literally, you know. >> So copyriters are supposed to do deep research on projects and they're supposed to know the audience. You should do the same with the person you're working for. Know your audience. Treat them with the same amount of research that you would treat the market that you're writing for. And I promise you, you will double your income without even improving your copywriting capabilities hardly at all. Because I will improve your copywriting capabilities if I can do really powerful feedback cycles with you. Now, if I do a feedback cycle with you, I don't want you to make the same mistake repetitively. Um, so you're supposed to integrate the feedback that you get, which is another issue with critical thinking. Uh, I digress though. And I will I can double triple the average copywriter very quickly in a short period of time uh with focused feedback. But you have to allow me to give you the feedback in the way that's going to give you the biggest amount of impact. >> When it comes to research, I was talking with a few copyrighters about this in the financial in the financial space. And in that space, a lot of the news is kind of how you get your research. you're working with a lot of info businesses that they that you know it's not always just like financial news. How do you do research for like the market research versus like the target avatar research? Because a lot of corporators just fuse that together. It's like yeah, I'm just studying my market. It's like but the the ICP and the what people are saying. >> Yeah, it's tricky because I generally work with clients who already understand their market completely in depth and my goal becomes more of an assembler than anything. like a Eugene Schwarz quote, copy is not written, it's assembled. Uh, so I am taking what >> they've done in form in terms of research and generally they have winners. So I'm taking what is already working incredibly well and then trying to find what I call the deeper truth of the market. So there's always a deeper level that you can go with the research. And so I start on the shoulders of giants and then I get to see further because I'm standing on those shoulder shoulders. So, this is very different than how most people are going to write copy. Uh, they're going to write copy if you're if you're just starting to build your copywriting practice where you are the one that's going to have to do research because the reason your client isn't printing money is because they don't know their clients and they don't know their customer base. And so, you have to go out there and you have to figure out what that is. U, I think Blair Warren has the greatest synthesis of copywriting that I've ever seen. Uh and it's it's goes let me see if I can recall this uh specifically. It's uh something along the lines of uh encourage their dreams, justify their failures, allay their fears, confirm their suspicions, and throw rocks at their enemies. Like if you do nothing, I my my mental model of research is significantly more complicated than that at this point in my career. Um, but if you just drill it down to the most first principle thinking, we have to know what the dreams of the market are. We have to know what their failures are and shortcomings and we have to allow them to be able to see past that. We have to remove their fears by getting rid of their risk as much as we possibly can. Uh, we have to confirm their suspicions in the sense of we have to know their worldview and we have to be able to link it to whatever we sell. And then we have to know the people that they hate so we're not like them. And we have to know why they hate them so we can present an opportunity for them to quote unquote get revenge against those people. Uh so if you actually approach it from that perspective, uh research becomes much easier. Um it's uh it's if you have a approach to it and then you have to run that critical factor of thinking which is very difficult too because like one of the issues we get with clients a lot of times and even my you know billion-dollar clients they run into this issue is just because a customer says this is their dream doesn't mean that it is their dream. just because a customer thinks this is the thing that would get them to buy and they'll tell you if you just did X then I would buy for sure. Buyers are liars. Like I I believe very little of what people say because they don't know how to diagn diagnose themselves. Like if you're an X-ray technician and you take an X-ray and you give it to the person you're X-raying and you say, "What's wrong with you?" They don't know how to read that X-ray. And oftentimes this is a mistake that copyriters make in their research. So we should have two models. We should have the general model of the things psychologically that humans respond to. So the psychological triggers that make people buy or that prevent people from not buying. So you should have that general model. Uh and I have that down cold. So I have all of these different levers that I know that will get people to buy or not to buy. my my most powerful lever by the way and this is the one that I think I've contributed the most to the overall impact in digital marketing. So if I've really been able to change the market and I've had some significant contributions to this market in the last 20 years. One of the things that I learned is people are more looking to remove a constraint than they are to acquire a game. Let me try to say this a couple different ways because I think very technical and I know it's not as accessible. Um, so we've all heard the thing is people are more motivated by pain than pleasure. Like everybody who's two days old in the copyrighting space knows that people are more motivated to move away from pain than they are to move towards pleasure. So let's take that to the deeper level. Um, I get people to buy when they run out of reasons to say no, not when they decide to say yes. So this is inverse thinking. And so the idea here is that's pain. pain is I don't want to make a wrong decision more so than I want to make a right decision. So I say how do I eliminate the fear of them making a wrong decision? So there's this principle that people also think about copy where they're like I'm going to make this person better. That's not how the prospect thinks in general. The prospect thinks of how can I be less worse not better. Interesting. Now, I know this is semantics, but it isn't because they just want to be less terrible, and this is why they buy more than they want to gain. So, this is what it looks like. And so, I spend so much more time on understanding these fears, these psychological limitations, and then figuring out ways to diminish those fears way more than increasing the output, way more than increasing the claim or the gain. Um, and that's served me very well. And so when I'm looking for clients is they generally the the the benefits and the gains are obvious. And so we we can spend some time improving and optimizing those. But where we spend most of our time is removing the fears, removing the doubts, removing the objections, removing uh the justifications for people to stay exactly where they're at right now. And what we really truly do at the end of the day is we create a double bind. is I make it more painful for that person to stay the same than to change and then change becomes automatic. So people though are trying to get you excited to change. I am spending more time getting you afraid to stay the same. Because if you're afraid, if that's the default perspective of the human being is to live in a a constant state of threat and fear, then I just have to use that threat and fear of you staying the same or not buying the product. And then buying the product becomes less costly than not buying the product. I didn't say it was a better deal. We sell the better deal still. But what we really truly understand is at the heart of it, the most powerful force of motivation is pain and fear. And so if I can write to that deeper level, then my copy is going to be more effective. And you just don't see that that often. People just don't think that way. There's this other blind spot, and this goes back to critical thinking, Matthew, is we don't do very well in negation. >> We see what is, but we don't see what isn't. So we are aware of the things that you can put in front of us but we miss the invisible and so I've tried to make a study out of that invisible like what aren't they saying like you you know like what's preventing them and it's that subtraction fear is invisible you can't see it like this negation of preventing them from saying no running out of reasons to say no that's invisible somebody saying yes that's visible so what I try to do is put visibility into that which is invisible Uh I I I did a product one time. I was included with the founder of uh Whole Foods, John Mackey. So they interviewed a whole bunch of people. Somehow they interviewed me alongside of him. I don't know. The parody is a little different there. Couple billion dollars richer than I am. Um but John Mackey said something that was really interesting. When they'd have meetings with the executives, they would also put a chair in that meeting room. And that chair would have a label on it that said customer. So they brought the customer into every single meeting that they had because in board meetings the customer is absent and if you don't see them they don't exist. So then you you start making really stupid decisions based on this absence. And so I try to put visibility to that which is invisible. And I think that's the best lever of copyrightiting because oftent times like some of my biggest bangers that we've done out there, Matthew, is I I make very small promises of increase of growth. Uh but I remove all of the risk of where you could lose. So I cap the upside significantly, but I practically remove the downside and we make smaller claims than our competition and we get higher conversion rates. >> We lightly talked about this in our previous conversation. We were talking about changing the relationship that the the customer or the future customer has with their emotions >> and it's it's this is deep stuff and I find this fascinating because this is >> I I've seen you you know do your work and it's like I'm I'm now paying extra attention to what you're doing. I'd love you to go deeper with this. Like when we talk about changing the relationship that the customer has with their emotions and removing constraints like what's the psychology behind that? Like how do we how do we go about thinking you know like where do we start with that? like where do we say okay this is something we this is a constraint or this is a emotion that they have and this is potentially their constraint how do we navigate making that shift >> so let's do a micro kind of analysis because this is how I always think first like we we sell to markets but I I say if I could turn this into a conversation with somebody else and demonstrate it what would that look like uh and I speak copy so I've gotten to the point now where if you can speak copy you can make more money than if you can write copy but it's copy. So when people like Iman fly me in to do launches for them and they have me sell on their behalf where like the scenario would be there's 80,000 people on they've done the formal pitch which I've helped assist and guide on the scripting and their copywriters have scripted and laid out and then Iman has presented and then it comes time for me to face an audience unscripted and then help them decide based on all the information they've heard whether they should buy a product or not. Um, this is the context in which I'm in. And so I have some of these closes, Matthew, that I had my team analyze. And I'm I'm speaking this with zero prep, reading the audience in real time and and giving it back to them. Uh, so this is the context we will extract from the micro application of this and then we can build it up into uh macro applications on how you would write the copy. So this is the first one. I it goes like this. I said almost any great idea is foreign at first. The problem with it being foreign is you will reject it because it's not familiar. But familiarity is what kills you. So we have to do the unfamiliar. So every good idea will feel uncomfortable to you at first. You don't have to immediately accept it. You just have to sit with it in all of its uncomfortableness. Allow it to settle in. See it in total and then make a decision. So >> let's analyze uh one to one or one to many but still talking as if an individual. I'm dealing with the constraint of people feeling very uncomfortable doing something different than what they're already doing, which is every prospect under the sun for everything that you're selling that needs copy to sell it. Um, so >> staying the same in the short term cost you nothing in terms of money and it cost you nothing in terms of energy. It cost you nothing in terms of time. You don't have to change a single thing. Staying the same is very familiar. you understand exactly what that is, even if you don't like it. And so, I'm selling against inertia. I'm selling against this thing where you'll have to pay me money, which will temporarily make you poorer, and then you'll have to do a bunch of stuff, which is uncomfortable because you're not good at it, and you will have challenges and experiences that are uncomfortable along the way. That's a big deal. This is why Harding, this is why it's so hard to sell because this is what you're facing. Now, I'm calling it out directly to an audience because I have a rapport with that audience and I have authority to that audience. So, I can attack it in that way. But if you think about it, if we step back and we write copy, we have to understand that uh a couple principle here. One principle I've learned in copy is if you label and call out the fear, you reduce its intensity. If you are the one to bring it up and address that which is typically not spoken and you speak it, >> you reduce its intensity and you gain authority. So I am literally saying that this is going to be scary and this is going to be difficult. Uh and then I use a little bit of like languaging I've learned from studying copy. You don't have to immediately accept it. So embedded in that is immediately accept it. So there's an embedded command there. Uh it. There's also a pre presupposition. Uh you don't have to immediately accept it. You will accept it just not necessarily immediately, right? Uh you you just have to sit with the uncomfortable uncomfortableness, allow it to settle in, see it in total, and then make a decision. I'm also moving past this issue that is hardwired into human psychology, which is people when feeling uncomfortable tend to shut down. They just stop the thinking process. they stop running through what it could like if they move forward with it. They shut down. And so I'm helping them run that through as opposed to stopping. So I'm giving them a model in which they can run it through. And this is how I would speak it. Now, if I was writing it, it would be a little bit different. I would sit down first of all and know like what I really have to sell here is sell them against the short-term benefit of staying the same. And so I could have that show up in my copy. uh where if I took that staying the same and brought it out over a year, 5 years, 10 years, 20 years, this is bringing the invisible to the visible, what would the cost of that be? Uh and then once people can properly compare the costs, then they can make better decisions. And they're like, okay, gee, I save my money now and I don't take any risk and I stay the same, but that doesn't give me what I want. So, I have to do something different to change my situation. And so if it's not this, what will it be? Uh and I understand this is rooted at at that level. And so this is one of the ways that we attack a constraint is we are able to label it, bring it out, address it, and then proactively disarm it, get rid of it, turn a disadvantage into an advantage. And very few copywriters write that way, which is insane to me, which is crazy that they don't get that. It's better to bring up an issue and then proactively go at it than it is to either minimize it or pretend it doesn't exist. >> There are a few copyrighters that will say, "I know you're skeptical. I was too." >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So, so there there's definitely like also the the struggle of how to like break it down or how to not just dismiss it like that like, "Oh, you know, you were skeptical. I was too. You were afraid I was too." >> This is how I would sell that. I would say I want you to continue to be skeptical as you sign up and as you buy and as you go through the program uh keep that skepticism with you because that skepticism can serve you if and then I would give rules on how they could better handle the skepticism. Uh this is again if I'm closing if I'm speaking to a group and doing all of that. Uh the number one thing that you can master in persuasion as a premise is that it's better to agree with anything that the prospect gives you than to disagree with it. Uh it's better just to accept it and then use it as leverage. It's like it's fantastic that you're skeptical. Like that's exactly what I want you to be. And I want you to be critical when you analyze exactly what we have because if you're critical, I'm confident that if you compare it to anybody else on the market >> with the same level of skepticism, we will win. Now, here's a little secret of why I can win so much in this business, Matthew, is because I generally only work with people who already have the best product in their space, in their category, and then I just bring out more of that to the audience. So, I get to pick and choose on specifically who I work with, and I only pick people who I firmly and fundamentally believe have the very best offering in their category for what they do. And that's super exciting to me. If you're a beginner, you can still find those clients. They exist out there because oftent times really good products don't sell very well because they're more difficult to explain. Generally, they're created by like some sort of expert who doesn't understand the value of selling the product. they think the product is valuable in and of itself and it isn't. Uh so there's a huge amount of opportunities even if you're a beginner to truly do your own research before you prospect and work with clients who have advantages because if you're if you're making a good meal but you don't have the right ingredients doesn't matter how good of a chef you are. And so I want the best ingredients possible before I cook. And this is like one of the reasons strategically and critically as a copywriter this is how I think. Let me take somebody who's going to win anyway. Let me allow them to win a little bit faster and a little bit bigger and I will make a large more amount of money doing that with a little bit of the effort involved that other copywriters are putting out there. >> When did you make that shift or did you always just have clients that you you just f I mean at the beginning of your career you you charge quite a little bit at the very very beginning and eventually you got to the point where it's like no I'm only working with the best of the best. >> Yeah. And so it's so funny because when we were in South Africa, somebody came up to me and they had a book, an old book I wrote in 2010 uh and they showed it to me and they they showed a page where I said I charge $250 an hour for consulting and I was so proud of that number. Uh in 2010, $250 was a lot. Now I charge $5,000 an hour and I only do eight hours of consulting a week. uh and that's fully booked and that's the starting of the engagements and then the clients and I work out arrangements if we go beyond just a consulting basis. So that's just the baseline. So it's crazy how far you can go in this market. >> I always tell my kids this. They've heard me say this a thousand times. I'm like if you're a really good janitor and you're the best janitor, what's the delta on the difference of how you get paid? Like if you're a nine out of 10 janitor, you get paid whatever 25 bucks an hour, 30 bucks an hour. If you're like a 11 out of 10 janitor, you get paid 40 bucks an hour, maybe 50 bucks an hour. If you are a really good copywriter, you probably make a $100,000 a year. If you are a really really good copywriter, you can make millions of dollars a year. So the delta on the difference of a little bit of extra skill is a significant amount more money. I love being in businesses like that. So when I started copywriting, I worked with clients and I was miserable because it was a lot of work and I made very little money and it was very difficult because I was constrained in what I could and couldn't do. Like there was just things like they gave me this and I'd say where's the success stories and they didn't have any. I couldn't use any like and it was tough working with some of these clients because they were disorganized and all that kind of stuff. So then I said screw this I'm going to work for myself. So, I started writing copy for myself and that was really awesome. I loved it. The only problem was I couldn't create enough of my own products to launch to then write the copy for those products and then fulfill those products. And I could only be me like I could only take my positions in the market. And my positions were good for the market that I served, but there was other markets that other positions would better serve for those types of markets. So, I was limited in my capabilities beyond what I could do for myself. And so I started then taking on clients. But here's what's different. When you have authority, clients come to you more than you go to them. You can be pickier. You can be choosier. You can accelerate your mistakes much faster because I've worked with clients of all sorts that were walking red flags that I somehow ignored and thought I'll be the one that will save them. Uh so I've learned many mistakes the hard way. And this allows me to be able to work with clients because I've worked for myself. So I can see what it's like being a business owner because I am a business owner. I could understand what it's like at every step of the process and how copy fits into the greater picture. Um, so this allowed me to be able to really understand these principles and then put them to use. The thing I love about working with clients because you know I have massive ADHD like it's I need to be stimulated and things have to be interesting for me for me to really pull out the best. And so I like working with clients in so many different industries because it's so fascinating and stimulating on how they're the same and how they're different. And the challenge is fun and it's fresh for me. And I'm at a stage financially where I don't have to optimize just for dollars to feed my family. I can optimize for other things that are valuable to me such as my ability to be creative and my ability to try new scenarios to see if I can learn new things. And so a lot of what I do now is I get paid to have these really fun science experiments that no matter what happens will enrich me in my knowledge set. And this is why I love this business so much. Uh and then this is how I'm able to continue to work with the clients I do. And then along the way, of course, I've learned what I've learned. Like the best thing that ever ever helped me in this business, Matthew, was being on these webinars, sitting with clients who wouldn't buy but were still engaged. So I knew in my head they should buy but they're not buying. And I would spend hours and hours and hours just trying to solve a puzzle, not even get paid. I was just curious like you ask all the right questions. You've stayed here for hours and you are qualified at this point. I know you should buy. I can read it on you. You haven't bought yet. Like come on. Like I pra you were the person I must have had in mind when I created this product and I didn't even know it yet. Yet you still haven't bought. Why is that? And then I would just practice and practice and practice and practice and pretty soon I developed and stumbled over some secrets um and how people make decisions that nobody else would talk about. And then I you know I would use those and I would teach them because I love other people to know them as well. So over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them, and you want to join us, and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry, and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. What are some of those reasons that most people are overlooking besides the the ones we've covered so far? >> There's a so many of them. Um the biggest mistake that people make when it comes to selling is they don't get that it's all just about fear and risk at the end of the day. >> It's it's nothing more than that. So, if somebody buys your weight loss product and they don't lose weight, then they feel like a failure. I bought a product, it didn't work, I'm a failure, I lost money, and I'm an idiot. I reinforced my loser identity. And that's scary. Or they buy your product, they lose all the weight, but people treat them differently. And that's not always comfortable. People judge them differently. they learn a darker truth about humanity and how superficial humanity is when it judges people just simply based on how much they weigh or don't weigh. Uh, and that's also scary. That's scary because >> it's it's unknown and it can be potentially dangerous. And then psychologically in that market because we've worked in that market is oftent times a lot of people associate an emotional buffer with the world based on the physical literal physical buffer in that world. Because like from an evolutionary standpoint, it was good to have excess weight because when famine came or when winter came, this is what protected you. And in a physical sense, if somebody gets stabbed and they have extra insulation, they are safer than somebody who's super skinny. U elderly people, if you study them as they get older, if you if you are underweight, you live less because a fall will kill you. Whereas if you have some weight and some padding, you could fall and break your hip and you might live. Um, so there are there are deeper levels of even if somebody's successful, there's still fear in danger around that. And so at the heart of it, it is the fear that is the most important thing and it's risk. So fear and risk are ultimately by far the most important things that you could ever think of when it comes to selling and writing. And it's not just one side of fear. It's all the sides of fear. And we have to address all of those. And we have to learn how to address them in different ways because even within a market, people have different ways in which they decide to buy. Um, and we we have to run this thread. And the better you get at this, the more you can do this of simultaneously giving many different options for people to buy without repelling any of the buyers. if those options don't fit. Um, so let me give you a metaphor first. Um, let's say I have a locked door that I need to get into and I have a set of keys and I don't know which key will work to unlock that door. Then what do I do? I just start putting keys in and twisting them and eventually I will find the one that will unlock that door. Um, and that's how I think about this. I don't say, well, what's the strategic analysis because I can only use one of these keys to unlock the door. So, which one should I pick? Is there is there some sort of way that I can study the keys and know which one is the right key to pick? Well, this key looks like every other key that I've ever used to open a door. So, let me use that key and let me spend 10 minutes and analyzing these keys before I determine which one to use. I just like screw it. I just key one, two, three, four, five. There's no strategy involved in that, right? But the problem is when you don't have any keys, then you can't open that door. And if you learn a technique, you have a key. Maybe that key opens the door, maybe it doesn't. You have another key. But if you have a hammer and you try to break that door down and you break the lock off of it and now you can't unlock it, stay locked forever, you're screwed. So we have to have these frames where it's we either sell them or we don't unell them. We either close them or we keep them around so we can close them again. This is what I try to do. And so what I know is some people in a market um they respond better to move towards an outcome. Other people in the market respond better if they move away from something. So people make decisions in some instances based on directionality as I call it. So if you sell them a bigger future that they can move forward to, you will do a good job of closing them. But if they're a person who wants to get away from the past, no matter how good your technique is at selling them towards a better future, they won't buy. But if you can show them how to move away from the past, then they could buy. And then the real reality, because this is way more complicated than people think, is generally people need a percent of multiple reasons added up together in order to purchase. So, it's never one thing. Not not at scale. Like, you can get this part of the market and think you're really good and you are really good, right? You can get the bottom part of the market that needs the least amount of persuasion possible in order to buy and you can make a h 100,000, maybe make 200,000, maybe make a half a million dollars and you can think you're pretty freaking good. But what you don't do, and this is what I do because you want to talk about the invisible when we've done launches like, you know, the best launch I ever did was $57.9 million. We had an idea. 226 uh days later, we had 57.9 million on the books. Um and we analyzed all the opt-ins that we got during the totality of that launch. And what we discovered is we closed 6.83% of buyers, meaning we did not close 93% >> of buyers. So if they were standing in a line in front of me and I asked each of them to buy from me, six of them would out of a hundred and 93 of them wouldn't. And then if you put them in in two groups of people and you zoom back, you can say, "Look at all those people that didn't buy. Look at these tiny amount of people who did buy. This had to be an epic utter failure." And it was also $57.9 million. And this was some of the best marketing ever designed at the time in the space that we were in or even in general on the internet. Um, and yet most people still said no. And this is the idea is I have to get the people in the middle. Some people will never say yes no matter what. You give them a million dollars and they'll say, "Ah, I don't want to pay taxes on that. Take it back." Right? Some people will always say yes if you can just reach them. You just got to reach them. Uh, they're on fire and you have a glass of water. Yeah, simple. But where the money, real, real real money is made is in the middle. People that can go either way. And so I obsessively think about that market because that's a majority of the market. And the more of them that I can get that should buy to buy, that's where the difference becomes being in a drag race with other competitors in the market space and owning a monopoly on the market. And that's what I'm all about is figuring out that extra layer that nobody's catching on to. Um and so this is this is the obsession on what we have and you can so you have to communicate in ways that you give crumbs and pieces of all the different re reasons people will buy and then those in the middle can take enough of those pieces to comfortably move forward. So if I can give you a reason that this will help improve your future in a way that this will help you escape your past. I will get both of the buyers that are primarily focused just on one of those modalities, but I will also get buyers that need some of each in order for them to take a step forward. Um, I will be able to do a lot more risk reversal because the overall market needs it and it's lacking in most markets, but I will definitely sell people that are riskaverse right now that everybody else is missing. Um, and then radical cander is another thing that you just don't see in most markets that I use viciously and effectively. And that's just flatout telling them. Like I have this close here. I'm looking at it. I I call it the 10% close. And I tell the audience this. I say 10% of a market spends 10 10 times more than the rest of the market. So I'm I am telling my audience this live just flat out saying it to them. 10% of a market spends 10 10 times more than the rest of the market. So, if you want to get rich, sell a lot of people a small thing first and then mathematically, not because you're good or you're skilled, but because of math, 10% of them will want to buy an upgraded level of what you offer to them. And I know 10% of you here want to go to the next level. Now, I don't know if it will be Owen or if it'll be Stacy or if it'll be Carol here or Abdul there or Jonathan there, but give me enough of you and I will create miracles. Uh, so this was a literal close that I used. So, I'm telling them, I'm first of all giving them the sauce. I'm explaining to them that 10% of a market will spend 10 times more money than anybody else, which is interesting in its own right. So, I'm educating my audience with information that's empowering to them. That's always going to be to your benefit regardless of the market. Uh, and then I say it's not a you thing. You can get rich and it's not because you're good. This is actually showing a deeper understanding of the market because this market doesn't think they're good. They think they suck. They're a beginner. Of course they suck. They do suck. This is why they need to buy the freaking program. Like everything I suck at that I want to get better at, I have to make an investment in personally, right? This is not a judgment. This is an observation. Now, I'm the only one that will tell them that they're not that good yet. >> Everybody else will cater to them. It's not your fault. Uh, this is going to be super easy. Give me money. Right? That's like the how the market work. Right? Now I take it to another level. I say I don't know which 10% of you will be that. So this implies that not only are they going to buy the thing I'm selling today, but if I sell them something that's 10 times more expensive but worth it, they'll also buy that. Uh so you know I say I don't know which 10% of you. And now people are self- selecting. So this is a psychological principle. >> Yeah. I wonder if I'm part of that 10%. Yeah. >> They want to be part of that 10%. If I say to an audience, listen, some of you are going to take this and be super successful with it. I already see two of you who I know will be successful with it. There's probably about five more of you in this room that will be successful. The rest of you, I don't know what you're going to do with the rest of your life. But hey, I'm going to try to help everybody. And instantly, everybody in that room says I'm the one of the five, right? I'm not telling them they're one of the five. I'm actually getting them to tell me. So, but this is how psychologically that we do this. This is called indirect communication versus direct communication. So I have all these mental models, Matthew. So I find more often than not at the highest levels of persuasion, indirect communication is preferable to direct communication, which is very difficult because when you start, direct communication is better than indirect communication. So if you're a beginner copywriter, you need to tell people what to do. You need to tell people how to think. You need to tell people what their emotions are. because the number one reason people don't buy is because they're not asked to. They just don't get asked to be sold. Um, so rookie level stuff is we're direct and we are clear >> and we are black and white and that is really useful. So let's call that Newtonian physics. So Newton came along and he mapped out physics and physics was generally accepted to be the truth that he spoke of and that was profound. uh but then Einstein came along and offered a higher level of physics. So everything that Newton said was true in that context and there was a deeper context that also contradicted that truth but was also true. Right? This is fun stuff. I love this stuff so much. And so at the higher level indirect >> becomes more profound than direct. We still use direct >> but we use it less and we we we do way more indirect communication. And and this is one of those example when I say I know 10% of you will want to go to the next level. Now I don't know if it's Owen, Stacy, Carol or Abdul or Jonathan and I'm literally reading the chat of people in the chat in that moment who are communicating with us and everybody can see it because there's a live chat going on and and then I do something that's very clever here that nobody will analyze. I say but give me enough of you and I will create miracles. So I've also took it off of them >> and put it on me. I'm like, not only have I given them a reason to buy that's selfish to them, but I've also given them a reason to buy as justification to help me with my selfish goal, which is miracles in this case and money. Uh, but I'm kind of like, you also need to help me. So, there's that implicit um suggestion there. And the whole concept is I'm not talking to anybody specifically, but I am talking to people, but I'm doing it in in an indirect manner. And I'm using hypnotic language, too. Um, I don't recommend most people write with hypnotic language. Like, this is nonsense. Like, I'm sure you've seen these copywriters out there, Matthew. Like, here's the hypnotic language patterns that you can write into your copy, like it's mostly nonsense. Um, it's good that you should understand hypnotic language for certain and the principles behind it, but if you can't speak it and if you can't deliver it in the right cadence and if you can't mark the right words as you're using them, uh, and if you're not speaking to an audience and if you don't have the direct level of rapport, you can't really write hypnotic patterning pattern patterning. I can't even say it, but you can understand it. And part of the hypnosis that I'm doing here is, you know, now I don't know which of you is that's a that's a hypnotic pattern, which is great because it says uh some of you will be successful. So in there, but I'm not saying you will be successful because people will resist that. They'll push back on that. So the hypnotic principle is if I can say words that can never be invalidated, I will never get push back. And so I try to write in that language as much as I possibly can. I didn't say you would make me a miracle. I said enough of you amongst all of you will and then you can decide if you want to be one of them. Uh I don't invalidate anything here but the bigger picture is the radical cander and this is what people miss when I write copy. I had this piece of copy. Oh my god it murdered it. Uh and then we brought it to Brazil and it murdered it again. This is a good story. So I wrote this piece of copy back in 2009 I think it was. And it starts something along these lines where it's like, I'm going to sell you a PDF for $49, which is like expensive to sell a PDF. And I'm like, no bonuses, no extra goodies involved, just a singular PDF for $49. Uh, and here's why this is going to be the best $49 you've ever sent. And that was the the lead. That was the hook. Um, and that that sold very well was for a productivity course. Okay. So then I'm working with these gentlemen in Brazil because they came uh and they wanted to partner with us. We say, "Hey, we should do some launches in Brazil, translate your stuff, localize it over there, see how it works." I say, "Cool, I'm game." Uh, and so we we do two projects. They crush. These guys are classically trained copywriters, by the way. U one of them is and his brother is an a media buyer, and this dude's a really good copywriter. Um, and so then we try to launch this product in the Brazilian market, and for whatever reason, the first piece of copy they write doesn't work. The second piece of copy they write doesn't work. So then they revert to the copy that I wrote all the way in 2009 and this is like 10 years later with that bold ass like I'm going to ask you for a lot of money for just a measy little PDF and if you're the right person it's going to be the best money you've ever spent in your life. And they just reverted that copy. They put it in Portuguese and that thing started converting like crazy and they would translate the comments like the Facebook comments because they were running this on Facebook and and people were saying this ad is so great and I bought right we want to make we don't want people to feel it's a good ad and didn't buy but they were saying I bought because of this ad and I find radical cander is so powerful and here's it's not because the technique itself is so good it's because other people in the market almost never use it. So, it's good because of its scarcity. And because it of its scarcity, it it screams authenticity so deeply that there's very few techniques that can do it as effectively because nobody else does it, the cander of it. So, a big part of what I do is I'm just very radically um candid with my audience of what's going on and then I use it to my advantage because fundamentally I think anything that we do when it comes to selling customers that is with their limits is we can turn every single one of them to an advantage. Like every single one of them has value and leverage in there that we just got to find that leverage. >> This is so interesting. Yeah. taking the invisible, making it visible and putting it right in front of the audience and then being also able to not create like a Yeah, like you said, um this is like story selling as well. A lot of stories are like this. With Hozi's recent launch, he had a lot of stories at the end of the launch. I remember there was a section about beliefs. He had like the 10 beliefs that changed everything for me. And that those 10 was so good. It was so good. like studied them because the way he told each of those stories and the way he framed every single concern that the audience has it was it was very very well done. I wanted to ask about the closes. You talk about the keys, right? And you know you go through each key. One of the things I see which I struggle with as well and I think lots of carbers struggle with is >> when you make a close >> a lot of closers are like that's the end. It's like yes or no now kind of thing. And the problem then is obviously you can't get to the next key. So, >> how do you how do you go from close to close without >> creating this like like you said earlier where where you don't unsell them and then they're like, "No, I say no now." And then you don't get another opportunity. How do you get both? >> Yeah, that's a great great point. So, it obviously depends on the media. So, if it's point of sale, long form sales copy, written sales copy, I got one shot basically to get them or not, then it's just like close call to action, close call to action, close call to action. And the fundamental thinking when you're writing that is if this is the reason that gets you to buy, then buy. If not, then let me give you another reason. And if this is the reason to get you to buy, then buy. So when you're thinking that's the mental rubric in which you're writing the copy through of I'm going to present it in a in a way maybe I say it but maybe I imply it maybe it's voiced or not voiced like if this is the if if this is good enough for you then you'll buy if not let me give you another reason if not let me give you another reason now you know on webinars it's pretty easy because the context is there's a whole bunch of you in the audience and I know different people have different needs so I'm going to work through each and every single one of these to determine if it makes sense for you to buy or not. And so that's the social contract there. And that's really powerful. It's also again that's radical cander. I got to determine whether you should give me money or not. That's the frame. And nobody sells like that. I don't know why, but they don't. And I do. And now I can close one after the other after the other. The best campaigns these days, and I hate to break a lot of copyriters hearts, but I'm going to do it because I love you guys. is branding is now way more important in the marketing world than direct responses. Okay, this very morning, I will tell you, my kids were going to school. My oldest daughter, she's 15. She says, "Dad, I'm doing a presentation for my business class. Can I show it to you?" I said, "Absolutely." She comes down, they're teaching her Canva, which is freaking awesome. And then one of her slides, she has the letters USP in it. And I said, "They teach you USP?" She's like, "Yeah, unique selling proposition." She's like, "Yeah, in a 15-year-old freshman business class. They're they're being taught USP." I go, "I just for fun." I said, 'd did they teach you who invented the USP? She goes, "I don't know. Maybe it's in my notes somewhere." I'm like, "Oh, man. I wish you would have been like Ross Reeds, you know?" I'm like, "Damn, my mom." I would have been so proud. Right. But she's got this presentation and it's got a USP defined in it and then at the end it's got a CTA. Like it literally that's what the thing is on our slide deck. CTA. I'm like, I go, it makes me so happy to see that they're teaching you CTA and saying it like that and then having you write CTA on your slides and then writing what the CTA is, the call to action, because coming up in this space of the digital world, like people didn't understand even calls to actions. They certainly didn't understand unique selling positions. And we were at war with brands like branded institutional advertising of even convincing people that they should do direct response. Direct response is a recent phenomenon in mass in the marketing and advertising world. It's crazy. Uh, you know, Claude Hopkins would always talk about it back in the day, how he would study direct response and then apply it to the big brands that he would work with, um, like Palm Mo and and Palm all that all those brands. And then David Oglevie would write Confessions of an Adman and he would talk about how even though they would do these big again brand plays, they would steal from the direct response world and they would study the direct response world and that was revolutionary but not adapted. But nowadays everything is direct response. Facebook is direct response. Instagram is direct response. YouTube is direct response. Um, every con, every YouTuber out there, every 15-year-old kid is saying like, subscribe, comment. >> Yeah. >> Call to action, direct response. Uh, and everything is trackable, which is used to always be the argument of direct response. Uh, and so what's funny is now branding is more important than ever. And because customers are now more aware of direct response marketing being done to them and it's very the the problem with direct response and I'm a direct response guy at heart. I'd love nothing more than direct response marketing to this very day. The problem with it though is it's very coercive. It's like we will tell you what to do, when to do it, and how to do it. And we will as long as enough of you follow the force in which we push you through a funnel then we will we can do it. As long as we can make enough money then we'll do it. Uh so it's very coercive. It's also kind of required like if you want to have serious change you have to put people through a process and you have to force them to grow. Like my kids, I can't just lolly gag around and hope that they master principles and don't marry some sort of dirt bag, you know? Like that's difficult for my girls. Like I have to sometimes force them through with direct response parenting, I guess, if you want to call it that. Uh but branding has now become more important than ever. See, branding used to be less accessible, Matthew, because it was very expensive to reach that amount of people and to produce that amount of level of branding because branding requires more production value than direct response. It was just not accessible to most people, but now it is like now you can do really in incredible branding from a production standpoint very cost-effectively and you can reach millions of people very quickly. So branding is more important because direct response has become so ubiqu ubiquitous. And so if we're talking from a branding perspective, then the idea is we don't have to do it all at once. We need to repetitively over time reinforce all the different various reasons both quantitatively meaning we we have 20 or 30 or 40 different things that we're always articulating and putting out there that enhance the brand and then make people who are ready to buy more likely to respond and then depth. We take each one of those appeals and we have a variety of different ways in which we show it. Uh and that is that is to me really exciting. I like that model more now that now that we can actually do it because it's soformationally biased. Like we are empowering every time we touch the customer that they don't give us money right away like they used to, but we're empowering them and we're saying now are you ready? Not yet, Jason. Okay, I'll be back tomorrow. Here's something else that's cool. Now, are you ready? Not yet, Jason. Okay, I'll be back tomorrow. And I I can never run out of reasons. And then stupid Facebook's like, "To hit your next goal and they're gifying me, you need to post 27 million times a day." So all the algorithms back in the day or all the media companies back in the day would not want you to post a lot. They would call that spam and they would say that this is lowquality content and there was a duplicate content penalty in Google back in the day. Nowadays, brands are like or media companies like please post six billion times a day. like the more you post, the more money we make for our shareholders. And so we're actually incentivized to post more often and we can it's easier to create this content with the assistance of AI. AI isn't going to replace it, but it can assist it. And so this is how we would do it in that scenario, which I am the most excited about because I can give a million reasons why people should buy any product that I'm selling. This is so interesting, you know, like even with this conversation, I have to like write notes and then think about I don't even know what the follow-up is to that because it's like, yeah, >> I got a lot of keys for a lot of doors. Yeah, >> there there there are a lot of Yeah, there are a lot of ways to take this. One of the things that has definitely changed, you know, in in my experience in the industry because I've been here since 2017, that's sort of when the social media was like really starting to take off, right? like those those last years of the 2010 onwards, a lot of brands would run direct response promotions. They would do warm warm warm-up, warm up, warm up, nurture, nurture, nurture, and then promote promote promote. So, it's like a field that they'll grow all the crops and then they'll just harvest all the crops and then they'll grow them again, right? But like now it's tricky, right? Because if you do that and you have you have a certain audience and you you you have this massive brand, you know, you have and you do this big thing where you take all the, you know, you kind of do this thing where you promote to everybody, you have to maintain the brand value now as well, right? So you have to maintain that brand equity. So >> Hamozi did this fantastically with his launch. And I I noticed one of the things that he did there is he had a very al like a good altruistic reason for the promotion. He's like this is not just a this is not a money grab kind of thing. This is not just this like promotion thing. I want to put this book in the hands of Americans. So, I've taken a note of that. It's like when you do good brand direct response like Fusion, you got to have a very good altruistic reason beyond just the sale. Is there What other kind of things do you want to make sure that you do to keep the quality of a brand when you're doing promotions and and selling to people? >> Yeah, it's God. The less you appear to need the sale, the more attractive the brand becomes. And there's a variety of different ways that this can show up. So, one of the ways that Alex did a really good job of this is his original branding was I have nothing to sell you. I'm giving you all the game for free because I wish somebody would have documented their journey like an Elon Musk when they started. I've sold this company over here. I have a bunch of money. I don't need to sell you a course because I'm acquiring companies over here. You don't have a company I can acquire. Not really. Uh so, I'm just going to give you the game for free. And this is a positioning play. Now you could say that it's done out of authenticity but it could also be strategic like and I'm not saying Alex did one or the other. I'm just observing in the market regardless of whether it is from truth or it is purely a position that you would take. Hey everybody else is red. If I'm green then I stand out. Uh regardless, it's powerful from a branding perspective because now you occupy a space in a prospect's mind that says you are completely different than anybody else I interact with, which is more important than ever because we interact with more people in every single niche that we're a part of. So back in the day, it used to be like maybe there were 10 or 15 gurus that you could follow for copywriting. When I came up, there was probably seven. I want to say there was seven copywriting gurus on the entirety of the internet that had programs that they sold that you could purchase. And nowadays there's seven million of them and you can find them on YouTube and they're all lined up next to each other just like peanut butter in the grocery store. Uh so now this is another reason why branding becomes more important. Um and they all steal from each other. So they can very quickly take what this guy teaches, put it into what they teach, and now they say, "Yes, and I do all his stuff and I have my own stuff." And then the other guy steals both of them >> and then they all give it away, you know, and then they give it away for free pretending that they're not doing that to create reciprocity and then there's a funnel behind it and then they sell you. So if you can cut through that and be like, listen, I don't got a course to sell you. I'm then and then you prove it over time because a claim is just a claim. You prove it not through copy but through action and then people believe it and then you get the mind share of the market because all markets have power laws. A few players in a market will eventually capture a majority of the market and you could become one of those. And so that's one of the ways to do it. Alex Becker is another great example of this. >> Yeah, I was thinking Alex. Yeah. >> Yeah. He was like, uh, hey, listen. I got the super expensive software that you can't afford. like I ain't going to you're not you you're not good enough to be my customer cuz you're you know a broky in your mom's basement. You're a loser. I don't even know why I'm trying to help you because you're not going to do anything with it but I I'll try on the offh hand that maybe miracle of all miracles one of you will do something with it but I don't have anything to sell you. Uh and then that you know both of those took the positions of I don't have anything to sell you. Um, and that is that is less important of the specific, more important of the idea of every other YouTuber that these people were watching at the time was pitching courses and they were selling things. >> Uh, and so this becomes a big issue if you look so much like every other peanut butter >> on the aisle. Okay? >> So with the branding because now let's get into specifics on social media. If every single post that you says is go to my website and download this thing, you're not going to get distribution because social doesn't want you to take people off of their platform. They want you to leave them on there. So Instagram wants you to stay on Instagram. Facebook wants you to stay on Facebook. YouTube wants you to stay on YouTube. And so now we're playing against the constraints of the media that we're in. So it's counterproductive to your distribution to send people off of the platform you're on. So then you have to start to solve how do I get people to stay on platform and also buy from me >> and that becomes a very interesting game to play because then you could do the whole thing like DM me some word and I will give you something insert this here and that's what a lot of these guys do and so they give in public and they ask in private but again the meta of the market catches up to that they say oh I know how this is going to go after they see me now >> you're going to DM me you're going to get me on a phone call and then you're going to beat the [ __ ] up uh out of me until I buy. Like you're going to hammer me because you've hired some 23-year-old closer uh who's got a cocaine addiction and he doesn't care who he sells. He just needs to fund his habit. Like I'm being a little bit exaggerating, but not much because these phone rooms are insane. Right. >> Cander. >> Yeah. The radical cander. I mean, so >> prospects know this and they're reluctant to get on these calls and and so then it's like, okay, well, how do you manage around that? Um, and so a lot of the value in having a position of being able to to build a model where you do not need immediate consolidation of whatever the cost is to put the material out there to get it back. Um, and these are the people that have the biggest leverage. Uh so if and this is the model I'm working right now which I'm really excited about. I don't know the messaging of how it will show up but it's essentially uh if I do eight hours of consulting a week which is my maximum that I'll take uh and I charge $5,000 an hour. Okay, that's 40,000 hour $40,000 a week just to have consulting. That's it. Um it's one full day of work. Okay. So then you do the math. If I take two weeks off for the year and I work 50 years and I make 40,000, this is 2 million and it's all net because I'm not prospecting. This is the results of writing the book like one to many. This is the result of being with clients like Iman and having consulted with Alex from Mosie. This is the result of all of that effort now paying off. Um, but it's paying off at the present and I don't need to advertise it. I don't need to spend money on it. I don't need a team to fulfill it. This is me getting such a high return on my time. So I can spend 20% of my work week just to pay the bills and then I can invest the rest of that plus my time in my team into growing brand. And this is where we don't need to see an immediate payoff. So one of my favorite people in this business is Jeff Walker. He invented the product launch formula and is one of the most solid dudes in the space. And Jeff was a genius in the sense of what the product launch formula did that evolved digital marketing at the time was they did like three videos of content and then the fourth video was the sales pitch. And so what would happen when it was done properly is by video three people would be like, "Dude, do you have anything for sale?" Like I want to give you money. Why won't you let me? Because up until then all marketing was two-dimensional. Here's something really cool. Now give me money. here's something really cool. Now give me money. Uh and Jeff was like he he turned the sales letter sideways. That's what he said. So instead of having it be like above the fold piece of copy, piece of copy, piece of copy, it's like day one piece of copy, day two piece of copy. Utterly brilliant. And it used to be a 21-day sell cycle. And then people caught on and people started modeling it and then they condensed the cell sell cycle to seven days. I always told them to put webinars in there. they finally did eventually because I I played a different model but similar in sense if I do a webinar I'm building up an hour and a half of value before I ask for the sale and typically you don't see that in most kind of promotions at the time and now with challenges you could build up for two three days before you ask for the sale. Um so this was this amazing evolution of promotion but the concept is still the same. How do we now do it in 2026? How do we get people in a state where they beg to be able to pay us money? And if we can master that position, that will make us the most money. So, as a copywriter, you should optimize to work with brands who get that, understand that, and have that capability, and then will be able to pay you to help them with that objective because the marketing that you can create for that client will be by far the best marketing that you could ever design in terms of its responsiveness. But this is planting a tree, watering it, waiting for it to grow, and then picking the fruit on it without cutting the tree down so it can grow more fruit. >> So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. The info business owners, they have more than just info is that they can lean on something else and then they can have that positioning like, hey, I'm doing my own thing as well. you know, like I have stuff I can help you with, but we're busy. We're working on all these other amazing things. >> The info business is the one of the most dangerous businesses to be in right now because information is is getting more democratized by the minute really. So, here's my copywriting story that I love to tell so much. When I got sold on the idea of copywriting, and I love copywriting. Copyrightiting is the soul of marketing. And I was told that Eugene Schwarz's Breakthrough Advertising was the book. Like it was one of the few books that you had to read if you were a true serious copywriter. And the only problem with that is the book was out of print and you couldn't find it. It was rarer than Hinn's Teeth. And so I went down to the Iowa City Library and they had an interloone program and I asked them, could you find this anywhere? Turns out there was one library in the United States that they could locate with the book Breakthrough Advertising. It was in Pennsylvania. So I waited for days for that book to come in. It finally came in, ran down to the library, grabbed it, went across the street cuz there was a Kinko across the street, photocopied every single page of that book so I would always have a copy on hand even after I returned it. And then I sat down and I devoured that book as if it was the last meal that I was going to have for a week. And that's how I had to get access to a book that was written in the written in the 70s that I then had to extrapolate and figure out how to apply in 2009 to the digital marketing landscape. Uh and there was a rarity and scarcity of information and it was very hard to obtain and so if you had the information you had a huge advantage over people that didn't have it. Uh nowadays you could find you I could find a thousand videos that are better at teaching copy than breakthrough advertising. >> It's it's crazy hard to say out loud because Eugene Schwarz was such an amazing copywriter in his day. One of the very very best and at the time that book was phenomenal. But you know think of some of the stuff technologically that we've grown since the 70s until today. It's not even the same. Uh, so there are a thousand different trainers that could teach you better copy today for today's environment and they could do it for you for free. So, how are you going to sell information amongst all of the really high quality free information that exists out there? You can do it, but man, it's it's difficult. You can still sell newspapers today, but it's hard, right? You can still sell uh ads on cable television, but it's much harder. And so generally instead you want to shift the model where the information creates the branding, creates the desire, creates the connection, and then you sell something else. Or if you're selling information, you add something to it. So it's not just information. But I I >> I would not want to be in just only the information business >> unless it's like books. Like my book is great because people will buy $10 books all day. They're still buy books and book is the greatest sales letter you could ever have. >> Let me say that again so everybody can hear it. A well-written book is the greatest sales letter that you could ever have. >> It's not traditional copy. Don't write it like a sales letter, right? Um but the idea, the concept of, think about it, if somebody read that book and when they were done, what would need to be in that book for them to want to do business with you at the highest level possible? And it's the best sales letter ever. It's a little harder to write, but not much harder to write than a sales letter. And that will sell more for you. So, if I was going to sell anything on the digital side in in terms of education and information, that's what I would sell. Now, we do have information products out there, but I don't market them and sell them. They're there because people will look for them and want to buy them, so might as well. And I love creating information products because it allows me to capture and really understand it because if you want to learn something, teach it. >> Yeah, it's good. It's a really good point. I ain't trying I ain't trying to fund my kids college with it. >> It's so it's it's so true like the infosace it's so fragile because you can you can be the hero one day and the next day you're not the hero and then you know if that's if that's your entire business and you got all these overheads and it's just purely on these courses. I mean I've seen in my career I' I've worked mostly in info as a copyriter. Most of my clients were were info business owners and you know they'll have this they'll have a they'll have an eight figure year or a multi-ight figure year and then >> they'll go to the drawing board and they'll say okay guys it's time to get to 100 million >> you know and then and then you know I mean you know how it goes a lot of the time you know you get those those milestones and then it's difficult it's difficult to keep going higher and higher and higher because as the market gets aware of it and all the different variables it gets dangerous. So, what do you think are the the big risks? I I know a lot of business owners in the info space, I mean, they've they've had a really good time over the last few years. They've been making really good money. They've been they crack direct response. They they combine it with branding. >> But I'm also seeing the same trend. I'm seeing this it's getting dangerous to just rely purely on that. Like, and what are what are what are the risks and like what what can business owners in the info space really do to to um to continue to add value to the marketplace and and continue to stay relevant? Yeah, it's all about eliminating substitutables. And this was the biggest insight I had early on in my career when I would write offers. So, I would write for clients and I'd be like, "Man, this offer sucks." So, I instead of just sitting there and saying, "Damn it, I guess I'll write the best copy I can with a lackluster offer." >> I would so go to the client, say, "Hey, listen. Can we make a bonus >> and add it to here?" Uh, and by the way, can I go and get a bonus from somebody else? if I go to this business and I get a bonus, can I put it in here? If I create my own bonus, can we ship that? Uh, so I started playing around with offers and I would do this for myself, too. And then I would discover certain interesting things like if I say, here, buy this training program and then I'll give you six other training programs that didn't help the sale. And I'd be like, well, why not? And then I would discover more of the same devalues all of it. >> If I say, here's a pair of shoes. Now, here's seven more pairs of shoes that are similar to it to sweeten the deal. You're like, "Dude, I can't wear seven shoes at once." Like, this doesn't make it better. But if I threw in socks with the shoes, I can wear the socks and the shoes at the same time. Uh, you know, and if I gave you a cleaning kit for free, that would make the shoes look nicer longer and last longer. Well, that makes sense and that goes along with it. But if I gave you more shoes, doesn't work. And with training courses especially, if I give you the answer and then give you the answer again a different way, I've just invalidated the answer that I've given you. Obvious in retrospect, but not obvious up front. So I just I discovered if I give the same result but in different modalities that automatically in almost every instance increases the value. So for me it used to be here's the written program. Now here's me speaking it to you and then here's the videos of me going it over going over with you. And in 2010 that was quite revolutionary. You got three different pro you got three different deliverables instead of one because people sold the audio separately. They sold the written word separately and they s sold the video program separately and they all had different prices. So I would sell you the video and the audio for free when you bought the written product. And the written product was priced similar to other PDFs at the time. So I'm my price anchor is like video programs go for 97. you're getting one of those for free when you buy my $17 PDF. And that sold really good. So I'm like, dang, if we just take the information and deliver it in different ways can dramatically improve value. And so today it looks like you can give it in check checklist, you can give it in cheat sheets, you can give it in SOPs, you can turn it into quizzes so people can access their capabilities and understanding and skills. And there's so many other ways in which just information alone can be repurposed. and add tremendous value even if the message is exactly the same. Uh so if you're in the information business, find ways in which you can put the information in more vehicles that make it more attractive and then make it uncomparable. People are like, well, I've seen people selling X. I've seen people selling Y. I've seen people selling Z when it comes to the product, but I've never seen people selling X, Y, and Z all at once. And I certainly never see them sell at X, Y, and Z at a price of just X, even though they're including Z, which is typically priced higher. So like this is a really good offer we're starting to cook. And then we get into complimentary deliverables. So like the sock to the shoe that I was saying, the pepper to the salt. Um, so we find that we say, "Man, if they have this as the product, what's the complement to it and how do we include it in the program?" So that way it feels really, really valuable because if the compliment sells at a much higher price in general, then they can't compare it to any other package because they've either seen a package contain X or contain Y, but not X and Y together. Uh, and then this is where it gets super exciting where we start to make the value even greater in terms of the offering. And then once we once we get into completely different modalities, that's fun. So if I sell a program and I include a software in it and I include some consulting in it and I include some group coaching in it and I include some done for you in it and I include, you know, just keep filling in the different modalities that exist out there. Now they say, well, I have never seen anything like this ever in my entire life that contains all these different deliverables that generally are sold separately. Therefore, this must be the best thing ever to exist on the topic because I have nothing to compare it to. And even the things that don't quite meet the requirements of comparison that if I squinted, I could maybe compare it. All of those things are more expensive and they're only a little bit of everything that you have to offer. And that's kind of been the greatest secret that I've ever discovered in this business, which is how to create these killer offers. Uh it's why I'm the most quoted person in in Alex's book on the topic. Um and he's you know studied me on how to develop offers and that was a big part of it. The other part is removing the risk but just from a deliverable standpoint uh information can be at the heart of the business but you need to put other things around it and then position it in a way that is incomparable. >> So much to think about. I love it. It's so interesting. Um, so if I were to say, let's say I'm consulting a business and as a copywriter and I'm getting involved and I'm writing an offer, I'm writing copy for an offer and I want to help them with the offer. >> Yeah. Where do we start looking like where do we start looking to add those pieces you know like I mean obviously the business got certain resources already but there are certain things that are easier to add like for example for myself right like when I coach copyriters >> I at first it was just onetoone conversations over zoom but then I added a mastermind modality to it because it's like okay you guys are all learning together you guys can all work with each other and then over time we all develop systems so I added those so like I kept building pieces it was easier for because I had complete kind of ownership of of the vision of what I wanted to do for my business. But I think that's where I find many copers definitely going to struggle is like does the business owner fully understand that this is kind of the way that they have to build their info business and like how are they going to you know you know you know what I mean it's like difficult. >> It is difficult. So that's why you only need one really good client that gets this every year or two and you can make so much more money. Uh, but the idea here is you analyze every competitor in the market and you make a list of all of their deliverables and every time you see a new type of deliverable, you put that in a in a document. And then when you're done, you have this master document. Here's everything that everybody sells in this market. And here's every modality. Here's every way that they sell in terms of the fulfillment, >> like all the different fulfillable. >> That's good. Yeah, that makes sense. And then I got to wrap up to this question, Matthew, because I have a call here at the top of the hour or the half of the hour. >> I appreciate it. It's been very, very insightful. >> So, this is and this is like a power thing for those that made it through this far. Uh, you can go to the client and you can say, I did an analysis of the market. These are the areas in which some of the pieces are being sold by your competitors. If we were to have versions of these ourself or if we could create them or if we could somehow design them by pulling them from existing resources you have and we were able to sell this, this is how this can help us convert. So right now you have this, but if we were to add this, this, and this, and then I could write copy to reflect that, that could be really powerful because we used to sell like an Amazon program. Um, and one of the biggest objections we would have is people felt they were disadvantaged by sourcing products from China. They felt they had to go to China to source the products and they didn't. The objective reality is you don't have to do that. You you are not at a disadvantage. There's a little bit different approach you can take. But then what happened is the competitors all said you have to go to China and as a bonus I'm going to take you on a guided China trip. And I I cool >> I would say this is not a bonus because you know got to play you got to pay for the plane ticket, you got to fly 20 hours to get there and then you got to stay in China for seven days. I'm like this is a necessary evil but it's not a bonus. But then customers would come to me and say, "Jason, I can't get to China, so I don't know if I should do this." So I said, "Damn it, I'm gonna solve this problem." Uh, and so what we did was we would now have this pitch because I had a fulfillable. Here's the pitch and then I'll tell you the fulfillable. Pitch was like, you do have to go to China, just not you personally. Somebody on your behalf has to go to China. And we have that somebody. We created a procurement team >> who has boots on the ground in China experience negotiating with manufacturers that you don't have. All you got to do is fill out this form. My team will take it to you and we will source your first program for free, your first product. And this is a free bonus. We call it the China concierage program. So you get concierage for free and nobody had that deliverable. So we looked at what the comp competitors have that were preventing us from selling. we are now able to smash an objection from our customers and we have this deliverable. Now, here's the beauty of it. Here's how we came up with a way to fulfill it because it's a it costs money to have a fivep person team that sources products um in China. Well, it c it's like 8,000 a month was the overhead. So, what we did is we went to existing clients and we said, "Hey, listen. If you pay for a membership 50 bucks a month, then whenever you need to launch a new Amazon product, we will do it at cost. We won't charge you anything extra. And so we were able to get 10, 12, $13,000 a month in billables from existing customers. So this became a small profit center to then be able to give the users on the front end a free thing. And then here's the master stroke in all this. The first product was free. Notice how I pitched it. The first product is free. Then they joined the club if they want to get existing products. So this thing became a nice little profit center. We actually got paid money to give away a free bonus that our competitors could not match. But it came from this fundamental issue of my competition is offering X and we're not. So now we're comparable to them, unfavorably comparable to them. How can we usurp them and become incomparable to everyone? And that's the mic drop. >> Fantastic. Fantastic. Masterclass. Thank you, Jason. >> You're welcome. It's always my pleasure to be here. >> All right, we'll chat soon. >> Awesome. Thanks, buddy. >> Take care.