I don't care how good of a realtor you are. You can be the best realtor on the planet if you don't have new consistent customers coming in the door. Like, you're going to be a great broke realtor. >> 70% of real estate agents didn't close a single deal last year. Meanwhile, agents following proven systems are tripling their production with less time and less effort. >> Like most agents, I'm able to get them to double or triple their business without generating more leads, without spending more money, or even having to work more hours. Today I'm sitting down with Joshua Smith, who sold over 7,000 homes, was ranked top 1% of real estate agents worldwide, and has coached more than 5,000 agents to transform their businesses. >> Dude, like the the pain of not accomplishing your dreams, goals, and visions. The pain that even the thought of not accomplishing those must outweigh the pain of the work that you have to go through. In this conversation, Josh reveals the exact daily routine he used to close over 60 deals in one month as a solo agent. >> And this schedule brought me from, you know, 40 deals my first year to my best month ever myself with closings, not counting my agents on my team, but myself was 63 closings in one month. So, this schedule brought me to that, right? So, as real estate agents, there's only three ways that we make money. Setting appointments, that's going to be your lead fault. Setting appointments, conducting appointments, negotiating deals. So 80% of your day, however you're going to structure it, should be allocated to focusing on those things. >> He also reveals the biggest opportunity in history to generate consistent listings and how to make real estate predictable instead of feeling like a roller coaster. >> I mean, first is is like we got to know the game that we're playing. Doesn't matter like if we look at like AI, like the game doesn't change. But the vast majority of this industry dude, they don't know what the game is that we're playing. If you're tired of the inconsistency, this conversation is going to be the one that changes everything. All right, Josh. So, super excited to have you back here, man. And, you know, we've done a video like this every single year talking about how to capitalize on whatever market that we have. And right now, you know, we're coming off the back of another year where 70% didn't close a single deal. And things aren't looking like they're going to get any better, but that presents massive opportunities. So let's start diving into, you know, how you're coaching people based on the current market and what should people be focusing on in order to actually succeed this year. >> Yeah. I mean, the first thing is let's talk about just a mental philosophy that I think everybody should abide by, everybody should operate by. It served me extremely well for my whole entire 21 years of doing this. And and when I say that, it's like in the, you know, since 2005 till today. I mean, I've experienced a lot of different markets. you know, two biggest booms in recorded history, biggest market crash in recorded history. You know, my business has been able to grow and scale every single year regardless of the market. Not because I'm somebody special. Look, I was blessed to have amazing mentors that taught me a lot of this stuff. And um you know, but but this is one of the mental philosophies or the primary mental philosophy that's really been the cornerstone that's allowed me to do this is just that understanding there is no such thing as a good market or a bad market. The market is always good for somebody. As real estate professionals, it's our job at the highest level to identify whom the market is good for. Pivot, adapt accordingly with your focus, your energy, marketing, prospecting, you know, whatever your marketing strategies are, you know, pivot according to whom the market is good for. Now, how do we identify whom the market is good for? You just look at and you're always paying attention to the market. Who's buying, who's selling, why they're buying, why they're selling, where they're coming from, where they're going. Because the reality of this is real estate's always trading hands. Transactions are always taking place. So, I always look at this and I'll just use my market as an example. So, I'm in Phoenix metro and there's certain I don't work the whole entire Phoenix metro, but there's pockets of it that that we really specialize on and work. Okay, I look at this as a real estate professional. It's my job to know, understand, and move that product, move that residential real estate market or residential real estate property in my market. So, that's my job right now. Who's buying it, who's selling it, why they're buying it, why they're selling it, that's changed many, many times throughout my whole entire career. So, I've always got to be navigating, paying attention to the market and pivoting accordingly. And so, number one, it's just operating that from that philosophy because so many, and I know you get this all the time, too, you know, are like, "Oh, my business is down because of the interest rates," or "My business is down because the market's bad." But that, you know, and I I don't want to sound like a jerk to anybody. I say these things, and sometimes I'm harsh because I truly care. That's just us being a victim. When you give up your own power to something that's greater than you, like you and I, we can't control the interest rates. We can't control if it's a recession, boom, bus, crash, anything in between. We can't control those things. All we can control is our own behaviors, own focus, you know, um, you know, that we put into it. But when I give it up to, oh, my business is down because the interest rates, then what I'm saying to myself is, okay, I can't do crap about this until the interest rates are fixed. No, dude, the market's the market. It is what it is. It does not dictate my success. It's like, here's my goals, you know, here's the hands that I've been dealt or that we've all been dealt. How do we play the hand to the best of our ability and go out there and dominate? Make our goals a reality regardless, you know? Um, so that's first thing, you know? Um, and then I get asked all the time, well Josh, like how do you know who's buying, who's selling? Like how do you pay attention to market, you know? Um, so number one, like, okay, I am paying attention to that on a high level. Just, you know, with my own business, with our own lead generation, you know, what kind of influx are we seeing with leads coming in, but you know, us as real estate agents, we typically get a smaller sample size. Now, as my team's grown over the years and you start getting the point where you're doing 800 transactions a year, that's a bigger sample size. But like, let's just say initially, you know, so I'll just give an example like, you know, how I navigated through the great finan like, you know, into the great financial crisis, you know, successfully because it was just me at that point. Um, okay. Well, I'm going out there starting traditional buyers and sellers, you know, open houses, expireds, you know, 140 deals my first year, 103 my second, just crushing that. Well, then all of a sudden I start seeing, okay, the same energy and the same efforts that I'm putting into are are yielding lesser results. So, first thing that I do is I start looking, is there anything that, you know, maybe I was doing that I've I've missed a step, you know, assessing my own strategy if there's any holes in my own in my own ship, but I'm like, nope. Like, everything's buttoned up, everything's on. Same time, I'm watching the market, you know, right? Month over month. So my whole entire career since 2005, every single month, I've tracked everything that's going on my market from, you know, absorption rate to average, you know, how many active listings are hitting the market, solds, pendings, average list price, media list price, average sold price, media list, you know, I'm tracking that month over month so I can pay attention, watch for trends, you know, so I'm seeing, okay, just overall traditional business volume starting to come down. So then from there, I go meet with my title company, you right? Um because okay if you if you got a you know big title company and if you're in a bigger metro you know they might see 500 transactions month over month you know so then I started asking them I'm like okay what are you seeing you like you know you got all this volume you know what kind of business are you seeing are you seeing lesser you know traditional are you seeing is there any other kind of business you're seeing oh we're seeing more we're starting to see short sales and we're starting to see a little bit of ARO the time I had no idea what the hell a short sale was had no attend you know what the hell ARO you was um but I got Google we can figure it out Right. Um, so that starts picking up. So then I'm like, "Okay, let me go learn these things, you know, um, and and start training myself on how to take advantage of those opportunities, you know. Um, so then the transitions were about 10% of my business, you know, is about traditional business at the peak of the, you know, great financial crisis. About 90% was short sales and REOs. Well, traditional picked up. AO and short sales were starting to decline, right? We're starting to see less and less of those. So, okay, I go have that conversation, go with my title company, and they're like, well, we're seeing a lot of hedge funds and private equity firms. What the hell is a hedge fund?" you know, again, I got Google, I can figure it out, you know, right? So, we started for the first time seeing these big hedge fund inst institutions come to our market, buying 500 plus properties a month, you know, so I position myself to get in with them, you know, right? Um, so, so next thing you know, we were doing 50 60 deals with them. So, that's kind of an example of what I mean by identifying, you know, who the market's good for because there's always transactions being have. The people that get themselves in trouble are the people that are doing the same crap that they did, you know, historically. Well, what worked yesterday doesn't always work today. What works today doesn't always work tomorrow. Yeah, 100%. And and that's one of the things that I've noticed like, you know, despite again that crazy stat of 70% of agents not closing a deal last year, a lot of the agents that are showing up to our calls had the best year that they've ever had last year. But one of the commonalities that I noticed about all of those agents that are crushing it in our group is that it's usually the agents who've niched down. they've found that opportunity, whether it's probate, land and ranch, um new construction, and they're they're always capitalizing on what is, you know, um a big opportunity, I guess, in their specific market. And so, I guess, you know, you've worked with so many agents over the last year, um you know, having upwards of 400 agents partner with you. Do you see any sort of common trends that agents, you know, should be mindful of coming into this year? Is there anything, you know, obviously every market is specific, but is there anything that you're kind of seeing as a commonality across what's working for people in a general sense? Quick pause. If you're watching this feeling stuck, overwhelmed by all the noise, tired of chasing leads, unsure of how to close consistent deals every month with clients coming directly to you for free, I want you to know something. That's exactly where the agent you're listening to right now was before we started working together. And if you want the same support, the same system, and access to all of my social media and AI training, daily live mastermind calls, and direct mentorship completely free, no extra split to no extra cost. Click the link in the description to book a call. We'll talk about partnering together so that you could be the next success story that we're telling on my YouTube channel. Now, let's get back into the interview. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, there there's Okay. If I look at those that are struggling versus those that are s succeeding at a high level, you right there there's two things, two primary things. Yeah. Right. Um that they got to get dialed in that those that are getting their teeth kicked in right now haven't pivoted and haven't shifted yet. So number one is shifting from playing defense to strategic offense. And I'll unpack that here in a minute. The secondary thing is, you know, they're not treating their business as a business. They're still winging it, you And what I mean by that, so I'll be quicker on the second point because that's a little bit quicker, but like you know, look, 2012 through 2022, longest bull market recorded history, longest economic expansion recorded history, longest real estate expansion in recorded history. You could kind of just wing it, kind of be consistent, kind of work hard, kind of show up and go out there and make multiple six figures. Well, those days are gone. We'll probably never see a decade period of time like that again for our lifetimes, you know? Um, so you got to you got to treat your business as a business. What do I mean by that? It's like, okay, you got to have extreme clarity on what your goals are, what you want, why you want, why it's important to you. Got to have a strategy plan with precision. So, you got to know what you got to do to win every single day. You right? Got to make sure your processes, your systems are dialed in. You're tracking them. You're treating your business as a business. And how do I know if somebody's winging it? They're like, "Oh, I'm show up to the office. I'm going to work hard today." But then they have to ask themselves, "What am I going to do?" Right? That's somebody that's winging it. You know, right? Like I know you, Mike, like you dude, you got your months planned out, right? You know, you know what I mean? So, it's like that's what winners do. You know, one of my great mentors, Darren Harding, one of my longest business mentors, always told me, he's like, Josh, you never enter a day without it being committed to paper first. If you do, you've already lost that day. So then let's get into strategic offense. Um, so when I say, you know, going from defense to strategic offense, we can't wait back for anything. And again, most people, dude, was such a good era of time. We could get complacent. We could, as the great Warren Buffett says, when the tide goes out, you see you skinny dipping. Well, a lot of people got caught skinny dipping, dude. Right. Um, so not waiting for crap to come to you. So strategic offense means two things. So number one is being strategic. And this is exactly what you said earlier is niching down. Okay? We're in a market now not going after people that want to buy and sell. It's going after people that need to buy and sell, right? Where there's urgency there. So I'm talking to agents like, "Dude, Josh, I'm doing so much lead generator. I got a bunch of tire kickers. Nobody's motivated." I'm like, "Dude, you're targeting the wrong people." So we need to identify people that need to sell. And then what I mean by offense is, okay, I'm not waiting for a damn thing to come to me. I'm going after them. Like what can you do to control it? you're on in your own fate. And I think a mistake that some make is they think that, you know, offense means only prospecting. No, dude. Like, offense can be YouTube. Like, dude, look, look at all your amazing agents that crush it with YouTube, but they're being so strategic with who their ideal client is, who their avatar is, type of content that they create, their release schedule, they're tracking it, you know, they're they're even though it's an inbound source, they're playing offense with that inbound source, you know. Um, so if we look at, okay, those that need urgency, and let's just use listings as an example. Yeah, I can go out there and circle prospect, but these are all these people in this community that, you know, we don't know if they just bought a home today or bought a home three years ago or, you know, if they want to sell, need to, you know, what, whatever. Um, and can you get results with that? Sure. But you're going to have to put in freaking five, 10 times the amount of energy and effort, you know. So, when I say those that have urgency, you know, niching down, it's like, okay, people going through a divorce, right? So, we're in the most unaffordable time to be alive as a US citizen. Um, in recorded history, number one reason for divorce is financial hardship. the probability of somebody needing and wanting to sell while they're going through this new life experience change is very very high. You know, okay, going after people that have 30 days plus late in their mortgage, you know, and a lot of these people like one of the differences between going after, you know, short, you know, pre-forclosures, you know, 30-day plus lates versus like during the great financial crisis, they were all underwater back then. They were all short sales. Now over half of them had plenty of equity. But it's not just real estate. It's just, dude, every time you go to the grocery store, every time you go out to eat, like life is getting so insanely expensive when people have a decision. Do I put food on the table for my family or do I make my mortgage payment? They're going to pick food every single time, you know, right? Um urgency there. Okay. Probate, you know, um and I think probate, if I had to make my best guess, is going to be the biggest listing source that we're going to see for the next two and a half decades, just mathematically, you know. So, if you look at 50% of all residential real estate, at least owned here in the United States, I'm guessing Canada stats are the same, are owned by boomers and the silent generation. So, that's 62 years old and older, right? Right? So there's 150 million single family attached housing units here in the United States. So that means 75 million of those are owned by boomers and silent generation. Now Charles Schwab did an intensive research study a few years ago and found that 70% of families that inherit um the estates from family members, loved ones that passed away end up selling them. They don't hold on to them. So we're talking 52 million listings hitting the market. Just how math works. It's unfortunate, you know, right? Um but like we don't live forever. So, um, you know, 40 with 40% of those two generations will not be here in the next 10 years. So, we're talking 52 million listings hitting the market over the next, you know, two and a half decades, you know, right? Like I tell agents all the time like, if there's one listing niche that you should master right now, dude, it should be probate, you know? Um, but okay, big urgency there, you know, right? Um, okay, absentee owners, you know, right? Um, so we got a a unique climate where we're seeing cap rate compressions in most markets for the first time in multiple decades. We're seeing prices come down. We're seeing tenity evictions skyrocket. But at the same time, we're seeing whole costs go up with insurance, you know, taxes, cost of deferred maintenance. So, if they want to get out at or close to, you know, peak pricing before this situation gets ugly, you So, that's what I mean by really niching down, you know, right? Um, going after those that have urgency or, okay, if I'm going after buyers, you know, right? um you know, okay, going after reo buyers, going after people that, you know, again, where there's an element of urgency there that are also in a position to be able to to acquire real estate and transact in this given marketplace. >> Yeah, that makes complete sense. And you know, one of the things that I would love to ask you, cuz you've got, you know, a world of experience with this is the majority of times that I'm having conversations with agents and we're talking about niches and niching down is they've got this massive fear of saying, "Okay, well, if I start going into probate and I start putting out content about probate, isn't that going to alienate all of the people that I could have been working with that, you know, with me as a generalist that would have seen me as the agent to work with. If I niche down like and I just put out content about this or just prospect about this, I'm going to lose all this business. Like, what do you do to kind of educate people and help them understand the opportunity that's at hand and kind of shifting their perspective on what it's like to actually niche down and still be able to serve people that maybe don't fall within that niche specifically? >> Yeah. And and it just depends on on what your medium is that you're going after this business, right? Um, obviously if okay if I'm cold calling, you know, um, okay, I can cold call probates, I can call call divorces, I can co, you know, like nobody's really going to, you know, I think that concern, at least in my experience, I could be wrong, but my experience more comes from those that are, you know, creating a lot of content online, you know, social media content, YouTube content, you know, but it's, you know, it's just it's our job to be the professional leaders, you right? So now if I only start creating content just around probate and that is it and and I want to just you know go so deep into that niche then yeah you might lose business outside of that you know but if I'm creating content around probate but that I'm also being intentional and strategic about creating other types of content that I'm not alienating you know um uh everybody else you know then I found it to be a non-issue. you know, dude, if you just look at I mean, most high producing real estate agents, team leaders, you know, they're going to have multiple niches, you know, right? Um, so we just have to be very intentional with that, you know, and I, dude, I didn't make that mistake, right, early in my career because I got so deep into short sales and reos. All my marketing became around that because I was in one of the hardest hit markets in the entire United States. So, you know, for about a four-year period of time, it was like that was all the business that we were doing. But then I had dude like good friends, you know, that are finding out that we're selling real estate, you know, um uh but weren't using me. And when I asked them, I'm like, "Hey, dude, like why didn't you reach out to me? Like I'm I get it. It's okay. I'm, you know, I always take responsibility for that. I never blame anybody else for that, >> you know. Um but then it was, man, I thought you just did short son REO." And I realized I dropped that. Like I did make that mistake, you know. So then I was like, okay, let me make sure that I'm communicating this message correctly of yes, we have this niche, this specialty, but we also can serve and support, you know, these other niches or other communities, you know, as well. U but I just lost that messaging. So it did pigeon hole myself. So I just, you know, be very very intentional with your messaging. But at the same time, dude, the riches in the niches, you know, so I wouldn't be afraid of that either because like, okay, the few friends that I missed out on that, did I really? No, dude. I mean, I was printing money during that time. >> Yeah, 100%. And you know, even going back to what you said earlier, which I I think is, you know, so important and most agents have heard this is treat their business like a business, but they they seem to lose the plot a little bit because often times, especially, you know, agents that follow my channel and they're wanting to learn social media or artificial intelligence, they assume that that allows you to do onetenth of the work and get the same results. But what they're not seeing is the behind the scenes of all these agents that are doing, you know, 50 to 100 million a year from their content, but it literally is a full-time job. Like they they are full till allin with everything that they do and they're treating it like that is their business because it is. And so, you know, I'd love to kind of shift gears a little bit here and talk. This is kind of the same question asked two different ways but I think it's going to give a lot of clarity to people whether you want to approach this question from what are the common traits that you see people who are failing have or what are the common traits that you see people winning have you know we've looked over the last year and whether it's calendar management whether it's priority management there's all these kind of traits that I think you know people need to be able to raise their hand and say I need to get this figured out ASAP if I want to succeed. What are some of the struggles that you see people are having in this current market and maybe your advice on how to improve it? >> Yeah, I'd say dude the the the at the deep core, you know, um it comes down to clarity, you know, like d like the the pain of not accomplishing your dreams, goals, and visions, the pain that even the thought of not accomplishing those must outweigh the pain of the work that you have to go through. You know, I think, you know, I mean, from those that I see succeed at a high level versus those that don't or those that struggle, you know, um, you know, it's like God does not reserve problems for a select few. We all are going to go through massive problems. We're all going to go through crazy [ __ ] storms. We're all going to go through it, you know. Um, but you have a small selection of of this industry that is willing to push through the pain because they know what they want. So, you know, for me, dude, I think it gets discounted, but I don't know if there's any more powerful than getting extreme clarity of what you want, why you want it, why it's important to you, cuz that's the cornerstone, dude. You know, like, and this might be a morbid way to look at life, but it's like, dude, life is pain. You just got to pick and choose what pain that you'd rather experience. You know, creating big success is massive pain, but also so is struggling your ass off, not being able to pay your bills. You just got to pick and choose what pain that you want to experience. I always use the example of, you know, in my early 20s, I lost my health, became morbidly obese, almost 300 lb. And excuse me, um, you know, that was pain, excuse me, getting over a little cold here. Um, okay. So, you know, early 20s, lost my health, became overly obese, almost 300 lb. And yeah, dude, did I have the pleasure of stuffing my face with any food that I wanted? Yeah, but I also had the pain of looking in the mirror absolutely being disgusted with myself, having no energy, you know, that that was pain. Then I was like, okay, I'm I don't want to experience this pain anymore. I just had to pick another pain. Okay, I'm going to go through the pain of dieting, go through the pain of working out, going through the pain of getting in the best shape of my life. Both are painful. I just had to pick and choose which is the pain that I'd rather experience, you know? And I think the the number one most dangerous addiction today that people have is the complacency. They just think that this [ __ ] should be easy. They're they're so they they aren't willing to get uncomfortable. So I said at a very high level and of course we get tactical with this. But that's the number one thing dude is is getting that clarity and just understand like you're going to have to freaking bust your ass off. You're going to have to push through some pain. You're going to have to get uncomfortable just dealing realities which pain you're going to experience because you're going to experience one or the other. >> Yeah. Yeah. That makes complete sense. And you know, I think as you alluded to, so many people think that, you know, the the work is what's difficult. The work is is the hardest part, but you know, you can get to the end of a 12-h hour day and feel kind of tired but accomplished because you actually felt the momentum of your business by doing the right activities, but you can also sit here for 2 hours and feel exhausted beyond belief because you were you had no clarity. Like you were overwhelmed, you were distracted. And that's what I find is most exhausting for most people is their mind every day they wake up and they try and wrap their brain around what should I do today with no plan, no clarity and it's so overwhelming and exhausting because they're running all over the place instead of just staying laser focused. And so I think that kind of leads into something that might be extraordinarily valuable for people is say, "Okay, maybe I'm an agent listening to this and I completely jacked up the last 12 months and I want to come into this year and I'm going to make this year the year, the next 12 months." If you had to give somebody advice, some tactical things to do over the next 30 or 90 days, what would your advice be for somebody that is, you know, doesn't have a clear calendar, probably doesn't have clear prospecting strategies, like I'm starting from scratch. I want to build momentum over the next 30 days. What would your advice be for an agent like that? >> Yeah, dude. So, there's a few things, right? Um, so I mean first is is like we got to know the game that we're playing and and you know kind of to what you were asking earlier is like okay what's the difference between you know the pros and the amateurs right is is and it's not what most people think you know and I talked about the clarity piece and and doing that and that I believe is to be the cornerstone but then from there if we kind of get tactical with this is it's do the pros they they know the game they master the game and they obsess over the fundamentals and how they play the game because the game is all the same you know right um doesn't matter like if we look at like AI like the game doesn't change but the vast majority of this industry do they don't know what the game is that we're playing. So if you look at the game, okay, it's get people to know you like you, trust you, be aware of what you do for a living, stay in touch frequently. Your business continues to grow. So your objective every single day when you play the game is to get new people aware of you today that were not aware of you yesterday. Offer them something of value in exchange for the contact contact information. Boom. Now you have them in your funnel. But then to be successful in game, we got to know the directions. We got to know the instructions. So if we look at like, okay, I can go play chess. What's the objective? To capture my opponent's king. Well then, okay, in order for me to do that, like I got to know all the pieces. I got to know the in, you know, the directions of each piece. So, if you look at real estate, just to kind of simplify this, okay, it all starts off with leads, you know, um or sorry, it starts off with activities. Activities exist for one reason only. One reason, you know, for one reason, one reason only, which is to generate leads. So, we have to have that obsession of okay, every activity that I'm doing, am I doing everything I possibly can to maximize and optimize the amount of leads that I'm generating? Okay, now boom, they enter the overall salesunnel. Then from there, leads exist for one reason, one reason only, which is to set an appointment. Well, no, duh, Josh. I get that. Okay. Well, do you you know, right? Do do you have the best lead follow-up protocol to maximize conversions with every single lead source that you are implementing? I mean, according to Zillow right now, the average realtor follows up a lead 1.7 times. Yeah, I'm telling you right now, the average lead, it's going to take 60 reachouts, six conversations, and one appointment set, the vast majority. So, they can say these things like, "Well, I get that, Josh, but if they got it, they'd be doing it." Yeah. Right. Okay. Then then you know appointment set exists to conduct it. Conduction exists to generate a client. Client exists under contract. Under contract you know to spit out a closing doesn't stop there. Becomes a past client re-enters the funnel is our number one lead source. So what I found with you know top producers on my own journey and then just you know spending so much time you know with the top the top in this industry is dude they just obsess over playing the game. They're not playing a different game. They just obsess over playing it. They're doing a lot of the same things. Um but they just master how they do them. you know, because there we're in an industry where tiny little hinges swing big ass doors, you know? I mean, everybody's looking for this magic pill doesn't exist, you know? Um um so we got to obsess over the game. Then from there, okay, if you're saying, okay, like if somebody's been struggling, like what is the number one thing that they need to dial in that's going to make the biggest immediate impact, dude? It's new client acquisition. And I'll tell you, and I'm sure you've had the same experience, Mike, but I've met so many in this industry. I've been doing this 30, 40 years. They still haven't mastered new client acquisition. they've just figured out how to repeat the same mediocre year for 30 damn years straight. How to survive this business, you know? Um, and it just blows my mind how many in this industry, and I get it because it's not really taught, but um, so I'm not trying to shame anybody, but it's like this is the first skill set that everybody should master. And once you master this, dude, like you're never going to have an income problem again in your real estate business. So, what do I mean by new client acquisition? How do we go out there and get new customers? You know, so, um, I don't care how good of a realtor you are. You can be the best realtor on the planet, you know, meaning like you know all the contracts, you know, all the local rules, regulations, you know how to negotiate for your customer, you know, clients. If you don't have new consistent customers coming in the door, like you're going to be a great broke realtor, you know, and there's a lot of them out there. And I know a lot of people in this industry that are amazing at new client acquisition, but are kind of shitty realtors and they make a ton of money. Now, I'm not giving anybody permission to do that either. It's like be brilliant at both. When I say new client acquisition, it's okay. like making sure that you you you know really hone in and master, you know, your lead strategy. So, okay, who's your ideal client, right? Um I, you know, and we can have multiple different ideal clients that we talked about earlier, but okay, what's my ideal client demographic? That shows me who I'm targeting. What's my ideal client psychoraphic? That shows me what my message needs to be. Where does my ideal client congregate? That shows me that now I know who I'm targeting, what my message needs to be, where my message needs to show up. Now, based on my business model, based on my strengths, that then shows me the delivery mechanism that I'm going to use to get that message to show up, you know, but when I talk about new client acquisition, the mistake that most make is they just think about lead genen. Well, lead genen is the easiest damn thing to do in this industry, right? The biggest underlying issue that most have is their inability to convert that lead into an appointment. So like my new client acquisition strategy isn't done until okay I've got the you know the lead genen strategy but then okay from the second I get that lead inception lead until they become an appointment you know um what is my overall follow-up protocol to maximize and optimize conversions but then from there too okay like it's not still not done it's not done until they're sign on that dotted line and of course it's not done till they become a closing but most real estate agents are pretty damn good once they get a client you know right um so this is where it's like okay like you need to also make sure that you know you're mastering your presentation like you should converting 90% plus of all your buyer consultations, listing, presentation to be world class in this business. You know, you got to be honing those things in and dialing those in. So, if there's a skill set to master for anybody that really is truly committed to turning their business around, new client acquisition because you master that, dude, like I said, you'll never run out of closings. You'll never run out of your biggest problem's going to be how the hell do I manage all this business that I have? >> Yeah, that's that's so powerful. And, you know, it reminds me of a story. I'm actually meeting up with him this afternoon, but one of my friends here is one of the top agents in in Miami and he closed recently a $30 million deal and he followed up with that client for 8 years from the time that that client first entered his website. Eight years. And so everybody's looking and congratulating him and oh, it must be nice. Isn't it so great to have all these multi-million dollar listings? They do 60 deals a year at $6 million in average price point. and he spends every single day following up relentlessly and they don't see that. And I think that's one of the commonalities because, you know, I'm sure you see this all the time is people are always trying to avoid the work that they should be doing in the sense that they've got no client acquisition, but they want to tinker around and spend the next two weeks trying to figure out what CRM they should use instead of just focusing on picking something and and getting into action. And so, you know, with that being said, you know, coming into here, I find a lot of agents are struggling with priority management and even just managing a weekly routine. And so that's kind of what I'd love to pull this together with is like what are you seeing successful agents doing when it comes to a daily schedule or weekly routine of saying, "Okay, I'm going to make sure that every single day if I hit these certain targets, whether it's, you know, a blend of lead genen, followup, um, and time allocated to client work. What is it kind of a general schedule look like for an agent that needs to just get into momentum?" >> Yeah, dude. So you know if we look at the 8020 rule right and and then I will give a concrete schedule um but if we look at the 8020 rule like 80% of your time should be focused on new client acquisition right um you know and what I mean by that or maybe another way me to frame that is money-making activities so as real estate agents there's only three ways that we make money setting appointments that's going to be your lead gen setting appointments conducting appointments negotiating deals so 80% of your day however you're going to structure it should be allocated to focusing on those things 20% should be focus focused on essential non-m money-making activities. So, they're essential things that we need to get done is how do I nurture business that I already have? So, let's just say I got three deals under contract. Okay. Well, I got to get those across the finish line. That's going to be the 20%, right? Updating my clients, following up with lenders, cross-ell agents, like getting getting putting out fires, getting that [ __ ] done. The other 80% is going to be, okay, how do I go from three deals to four deals to five deals, you know? So making sure that if you start just doing a time study every single day like I do you know through my GST mode daily performance planner is I'm first thing I do is I'm allocating did I make sure to allocate 80% of my day my energy my focus to my workday on money-making activities and if there's not like okay we got to make some adjustments in the schedule you know then from there the schedule that I put everybody on this is the schedule that I followed right um um until I got to the point where I was out of production you know as a CEO of a team of of my team you know um and this schedule brought me for, you know, 40 deals my first year. Dude, my best month ever myself with closings, not counting my agents on my team, but myself was 63 closings in one month. So, this schedule brought me to that, right? Um, you know, um, so now I had an amazing admin team. It wasn't like it was just me, you know, right? But me being the, you know, agent on those deals, negotiating those deals, you right? So, you know, start your workday, you know, at the latest and well, let me say this just because I don't want sometimes people get caught up on this. Well, Josh, I got to drop my kids off at school. I can't start my workday at 7 a.m. Okay, move 7 am to 8 a.m. you right? Like I'm just using these as fillers, right? 7 am to 8 a.m. Okay, you're starting your workday. 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. to that time slot. We're we're checking any and responding to any urgent messages that came in the night before. Um we're updating our CRM with any leads that came in the night before. And then we're prepping for our daily either outbound prospecting or follow-up calls. Then 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. is on the phone hitting all your daily follow calls. Because look, I don't care if you're doing you YouTube, Instagram, Zillow, open houses, cold, like appointments get set on the phones. Those of you that are like, I'm afraid of the phones. Get over like, dude, you're going to have to get on the phone and I don't know how these leads are coming in, you know? Right. So, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., you know, right? At a minimum, if I'm not using a dialer, that should be 50 dials, five conversations at a minimum. If you're using a good dialer, okay, we can, you know, double, if not triple that. Um, then from there, 10 to 10:30, sphere of influence, past client follow-up. 10:30 to noon is essential non-m money-making activities. Again, that's a admin, you know, updating lenders, client updates, you know, getting the [ __ ] across the finish line. Noon on is pounding the pavement, you know. Um, so what I mean by pounding the pavement time is, okay, that's your conducting your buyer presentations, your listing presentations, um, doing property showings. If you're not doing one of those three things, it's more lead gen, lead follow-up, or working on systems, processes, or skill set, you know. And I always look at this like when I'm talking with agents because it more so now and I know you're probably getting hit up with this too more so now Mike you know um over the last couple years I've never seen more agents struggling in this industry. >> Yeah. >> You know so they'll reach out to me like Josh I haven't closed a deal in seven months. I'm like what are you doing dude? Like if you didn't open house every single day for seven months I think I heard you say something like dude if you door knockock four hours a day seven days a week like you're not going to not get business you know right? Um, but if you don't have anything in the pipeline, you have no business doing anything else other than generating a customer, generating a client, like get to work. And when people are like, "Oh, this is so hard." I'm like, "Really? Is it?" You know, I I mean, I've had some hard jobs, dude. There's nothing really hard about real estate. Is there stresses with it, is there? But it's not like we're pouring concrete all day. It's not like we're up on the roofs taring roofs in 105 degree temperatures, you know? Right. It it's you know I get the rejection can be tough but okay there's you know ways that we can manage that and like give me you know 10 minutes with anybody I can get them to overcome you know their fear of call reluctance it's just mental framing you know right um you know but none of this stuff is that hard you right but we got to get to freaking work >> and I I find you know again looping back to that whole concept that I think is overarching all of this of what gets measured gets managed you know all of that rejection becomes so much more palatable when you know the numbers of how many nos it takes to get a yes and then it's just like okay another one another one I'm good to go but when you don't have any numbers when you don't have any uh kind of frame of reference of what that rejection actually leads to in a positive sense you allow it to eat away at you instead of just looking at it as as a math equation right and that's all that this is and you know I think one of the most you know powerful quotes that you've ever said that you know really stuck with me you know we talked about this years ago is you know you were the first person that ever heard say that this is one of the most predictable businesses that you can actually get into. And everybody says, and everybody meaning the 70% who are struggling, continue to say that this is this is a business that's a roller coaster. It's constantly, you know, um up, down, all around. You can't calculate anything. You can't predict anything. Um and that's one of the things that I think you've mastered is being able to take a different perspective to that. >> Yeah. And if I can elaborate on that is because I get it with the commission roller coaster. But why why do we have these ups and downs, right? Um the only way out of that is taking the right consistent actions daily over time. If you have inconsistent results and you're having this roller coaster is because you're doing inconsistent actions and and the reason why I say this is the most predictable business that you know I've ever seen is okay based on my efforts today I can predict what my next you know three to four months looks like you know. Um so this is where yeah path is in the math. We got to track your data. We got to track your numbers. Everybody should be tracking per lead source, you know. I mean, of course, how many leads if there's a cost per lead associated to that? So, you know, cost per acquisition, you know, um and and let's just say, okay, we use open houses or I don't care insert lead source, right? But okay, got my, you know, how many leads am I doing for my open houses? So, how many open houses I'm doing? And I I track even the open house because you know me, I'm a tracking freak, right? So, I want to know, you know, um, okay, like what was the neighborhood, what was the date, what was the time, how many hours did I spend doing the open house, what was the property address, what was the price point, um, how many signs did I put out, how many leads, you know, right? So, then I can start maximizing and making sure like I get agents all the time in my market like, "Oh, Josh, I do open house, they don't work for me. I only get three people through." I'm like, "Well, that's interesting. We're in the same market and I get about 20 people through every open house, you know, but I know exactly the best days, the best time, signage, you know, and I'm not telling anybody do open house. I'm just using an example." But then from there, okay, then okay, number of leads, but then I track it. Okay, number of reachouts. How do I define a reachout? Okay, picked up the phone, the phone rang. Number of conversations. How do I track a conversation? A human being picked up that phone. I do not I do not care if it's the wrong number. Some people want to do that and make the numbers look prettier. For me, I just keep it black and white. My numbers may not look as pretty, but now there's no, you know, there's no room for error, right? So, reachouts, conversations, appointment set, appointment conductions, number of clients, number of closings. Now I know my overall conversion rate but then within there now we can see the areas of improvement and when I said earlier that big tiny hinges swing big doors like most agents I'm able to get them to double or triple their business without generating more leads without spending more money or even having to work more hours you know because the quickest way to do that is to get twice or three times as good at what you're already doing you know so if we just look at industry average right so let's just say their appointment set to conduction rates 50%. Very easy to get that to 70 75%. takes four things, right? We got to sell the value of the appointment. Got to make sure that they feel comfortable because a fight orflight mechanism is, you know, they'll set the appointment knowing that they can bail. So, you got to make sure that they feel comfortable. Got to sell the value of the appointment. Got to make sure that you're setting the appointment in a soon enough time frame. If you set it beyond 72 hours, cancellation rate skyrocket, then you got to confirm it correctly. We nail those four things. Okay, we'll get you a 75% show rate. Then, okay, industry average appointment conduction of client taken rates 50%. Very easy to get that to 90%. But you got to know how to present, you know, right? like, okay, great prisoners, you know, we'll do four things, right? So, you're going to inform and educate. You're going to articulate your value, identify any root core concerns, and overcome those concerns lead seamlessly into the close. But it's like we just work on those three KPIs, you know, and get each of those up 10, 15, 20%. Okay, now we've doubled, if not tripled somebody's business freaking quickly without them having to work more hours, you know, right? Without spend more money, have more conversations, you know? Um, but, you know, to avoid that roller coaster, you got to know what those KPIs are. So every single day like I know exactly how many reachouts, how many conversations, how many appointments set I need to have individually but collectively as a team, right? So then now I know again what our business is going to look like in the next three or four months based on what we are doing right now today. Yeah, it's it's amazing. And I think that, you know, kind of perfectly leads into, you know, the next natural question people are going to have is, you know, how do I how do I get started in and I want help? And so, you know, I'm blessed enough to see firsthand the agents lives that you've transformed. And I know so many agents that I could rhyme of right now who I knew previously before they worked with you and they were, you know, complaining. They were overwhelmed. They were super distracted. They had no momentum. And over, you know, the course of three months, their business shifted exponentially. And they're getting on our calls and saying that they've got multiple listings lined up just within the first six weeks of being able to follow your process. And so you and I are partners and there's going to be a lot of agents that are listening to this and saying, you know, I want access. I want help. I want mentorship. And you know, I want to know what to do for my market. And so, do you want to pull it together by just talking about the fact that, you know, people listening right now can click that link in the description, book a call with you, and actually get your support to mentorship for free to be able to make sure that before it's too late, they actually hit their goals this year. >> Yeah, 100%. I would just say this is, you know, when we're talking about partnering together, you know, with myself and with Mike, because here here's the benefit of this and and really the, you know, there there's a reason why, you know, I partner with you strategically, Mike, right? Is, you know, um I look at this, okay, your strengths are my weaknesses, my strengths are your weaknesses. We have two different skill sets. And anytime I'm looking for a strategic business partner, it's like I don't want to partner with somebody that's the same as me, >> you know? Right? Like I want to two plus like 1 plus one equals five, not one plus one equals two, you know? and you have such a brilliant unique skill set that is, you know, if anybody came to me and said, "Josh, I want to build a million- dollar business a year through TikTok." I don't know what to tell them to do. But you are hands down the best in the world that I've ever seen by a far margin. You know, AI, social media, YouTube. Um, and I'm am I good at some of those things? Yeah, but I'm not to near to your caliber, you know. Um, where my wheelhouse comes in is, you know, how to build and scale real estate businesses. You know, a lot of traditional methods, online methods, but I know systems of process. I know how to treat a business as a business and I know how to turn people's business around fast and how to scale them big and fast, you know. Um, so anybody that's watching or listening to this, you know, um, you get two for one, man. I mean, you get, you know, everything that I bring to the table, all my coaching, mentorship support, plus all the amazing stuff that Mike Sherard does, and I would just say, and I'm going to steal one of your quotes, is the most expensive thing that we can own is a closed mind. Look, everything that I do you guys is zero pressure. Not going to try to push you, not going to try to pressure you, not going to try to recruit you. you know, if you book that link below, I'm just going to walk you through, hey, here here's what we got. Here's how we work. Here's how we operate. You know, here's all the additional systems, tools, support that we provide, um, answer any questions that you have and you think it's a fit for each other, awesome. Love to partner with you. We can roll together. And if you don't think it's a fit, that's okay. Hey, at least we had, you know, a call together and I can promise you I'll make sure that call is of value to you whether you decide to partner or not. So, yeah, click that link below and love to have a conversation with anybody, everybody that's interested in partnering together with us. >> 100%, dude. Well, again, thank you so much for for sharing the blueprint. And again, you know, I like to say that I'm living proof of what booking that call can actually be because you were the person that helped me break six figures in my first year and have motivated me, you know, to be able to go and build a multiple seven figure real estate business and and I give credit to you and the motivation, the mindset, the perspective of what that's been able to do to completely transform my own life. And now I'm blessed enough to see, you know, hundreds of other agents that have done it as well. So guys, make sure you click that link, have an open conversation. It's the, you know, the least that you could do is to educate yourself, right? So that you can make a decision on what's best for you. So Josh, thanks so much again, dude, for sharing everything. >> Yeah, it's an honor, my friend. Appreciate you. >> Awesome. Thanks so much, guys. Make sure you like, comment, subscribe, check out Josh's channel in the description. We'll see you in the next one.