You don't really need fancy tools and expensive templates to build a website or a landing page that matches a professional design. But a lot of people struggle with it because they don't approach it the right way. They just hop right in and say, "Hey, Gemini, build me a beautiful landing page." And you know, that approach will get you something, but unless you're trying to live your life being mid-tier at best, you need to have a system. So, the goal for this video is to show you how to actually pick apart the two different types of competitors and use them as inspiration to build something better using free tools. Because if you ever want to legitimately make money with AI, with software, with an agency, or really any other type of business, you need to be able to build something that looks great. Because quality design is actually a subconscious authority signal. And what that means is that people are attracted to authority figures like moths to a flame. Now, I've built two different businesses before and I can tell you from experience that perceived authority is one of the biggest needle movers you can possibly imagine. So, let's get into it and I'll show you the exact system to make it happen. So, there's three pieces to this system. research, design, and finally build. Now, in this video, we're going to be going through [snorts] free tools to run this entire process. And so, following this process helps us overcome the single biggest issue that vibe coders face, a planning process. So, if there's one philosophical takeaway from this video outside of the system I'm going to show you, it is this. Any unanswered question in your plan has to be decided upon by the language model at game time. The single biggest cause of failed vibe coding in any form is under specified plants. So unless you're giving really great context before you start building, it has no choice other than make up. So that said, let's get into it with step one, which is research. So we have this prompt pasted in here, which by the way will be available for free along with any other prompt I use in the description below. And what this thing does is it goes out and does competitive research. Now, 99% of people skip this step and it's a big part of why the end build fails because if you don't really precisely answer what am I building and who is it for and what do I want them to do with it and what have they tried to solve this problem for themselves in the past then you're just going to be shooting in the dark with whatever you build. So, you cannot hit a target that you have not defined. So, when we're researching there's really two phases to pay attention to. Number one is internal research, which is a fancy way of saying asking yourself the important questions. So, what do we already know about this thing that we've built or that we're trying to sell or monetize or whatever? And what are we kind of thinking already in terms of how we want to position that and what we know the benefits of these things to be. But the second part, which is a little bit more interesting, is what does the external landscape look like? So, for this page that we're going to build, we're going to be using an example of a tool that I'm building right now, which is a social media agent platform. And so, we're looking at two distinctly different things here. Number one, direct competitors. These are companies that kind of position themselves around the same thing that you do. So, if this was a social media agent that specialized in YouTube, for example, then other companies that help people do their YouTube planning and content creation process would be a direct competitor. But on the flip side, and one that's more interesting that most people don't consider are indirect competitors. So, these are competitors that might help them solve that same problem, but in an entirely different way. A really concrete example of this is in weight loss. If you're a personal trainer, a direct competitor might be another personal trainer. An indirect competitor might be jabbing yourself with a pharmaceutical to lose weight. So, attempting to solve a similar problem, but taking wildly different approaches. Now that this research is done, the reason this is really valuable is it's going to tell us the language that our competitors use, what their unique selling point actually is that differentiates them from others, what the core like identity of the brand actually is, and the part that's really relevant for what we're about to do is the structure of their websites and landing pages. Now, there's a few different language model companies that have free deep research tools. Chachabet has one. I believe Gemini has one. If I was running this process for myself, realistically, I would use Claude's deep research. But you have a lot of different options to get out this type of data. But what do we do once we have it? The last piece of this first step is to now take that information and chop it up into something that would actually make sense for our landing page. So, generally speaking, a good landing page tends to have the same structure every single time. So, you don't need to really worry about reinventing the wheel. They're going to have the area above the fold with a headline, a sub headline, and a call to action. They're going to have social proof and authority building, feature benefit sections, sometimes a how it works section, pricing, FAQs. Now, if you look at companies that do really well, they are speaking to a very specific person and very specific problems. And we can see a few examples of that here. Post syncer very successful social media management tool. And you can notice immediately in the headline who this is for. Create once share everywhere. Now, if you're someone that's ever had to create content for a living or for a business, there's a real pain in the fact that you create this information that you spend a lot of time working on, but then when you go to all of these other platforms that you'd want to have a presence in, it can become very difficult to actually chop it up effectively for these different channels. So, this is speaking to a very specific pain and it has a very specific unique selling point. Now, if they hadn't done that research to understand their customer, this headline probably would have never happened. Now, if we look at this other app I came across on Product Hunt called Mom Clock, just interesting name for a product. Mom said it's time. You don't get to argue. Mom Clock is a discipline focused productivity app that stops procrastination by having your mom yell at you. Very specific person that this is probably for. It's not me, but it is for someone, right? But that comes across in everything from the design of these cards to the little character they use to all of the language that gets used. It's obviously for a very specific person, probably one that's used to having an overbearing mom. And now that they're out on their own in the real world, they find themselves not getting anything productive done. And so really, no matter what landing page you look at, they tend to follow this type of format. So, what we want this to do is to think about our context, like what it is we're selling. Whether it's our agency, whether it's a product, whether it's a service, whatever it is, we want it now to think about this structure in the context of our specific thing that we're about to design. So, in this case, I'm just giving a really brief description of what the app is, who it's for, and then some of the features that are in this thing. What we get out the other side that I really like because a lot of people do not do this is we get competing hypotheses. Meaning I don't want it to just lock into one approach and build my entire landing page around that thing. I wanted to come up with a few different approaches to how it would solve that problem. So we can see in one sense we're going to get the more like efficiency and scaleoriented approach. In one, it's going to be about quality and nuance of what we do. And in the other, it's going to be about having personalization and applying your frameworks to those problems. As we scroll down, we start to get a sense of how it would structure each of the sections inside of our app and gives us some recommendations. So again, depending on the tools that you use most, I would recommend using this process in those tools. But again, this is a free option that you can use. So again, this is the first piece that most people miss. You need to do in-depth research about what you are going to build. Whether it's a landing page, whether it is an actual software or app you're building, whether it's an agency and you're deciding your services, if you skip this step, you will 100% fail because you won't be speaking to a specific enough person. So now that we've done the research, we're going to move on to the next stage, which is the design. Now, the tool that we're going to be using in this example, again, because it is free, is Google Stitch. Now, if you haven't used this tool before, the way it works is pretty simple. You literally just describe what you want and out the other side pops your designs. Now, I've experimented with a lot of different approaches to this, and there's a counterintuitive one that I think actually performs the best. So, what I've found works best is to first have it build just the generalized structure and style of the landing page, right? So, styling out what the headline, the sub headline, the CTA, the different sections are going to be, what the overall aesthetic and vibe and feel of it are going to be. And that's what we can kind of see here where it's not really talking specifically enough about my offer, but we're starting to get a sense of what the actual design of this thing would look like. Now, what I noticed is if you were to give it all of the copy that you want, also it tends to give you a pretty mid-level design. So, taking these things in sections is a power tip. So, what we're going to do from there once we have this overall kind of scaffolding is we come in and we paste in all of the copy that we got from that research phase. So, our headline, our sub headline, the CTA, and every other section that we designed. And so, now we can see how we went from something that like had nice bones to it, but wasn't really filled out in a way that was like exciting in any way, and it wasn't even necessarily what the actual features in the app were. to a version that keeps the same style and aesthetic, but now has all of these other elements inside of it that again were generated based on that research and how we chose to translate that research into the sections of our page. And so, a little bonus tip that I want to show you here, there's a few different approaches that you can take to how this design gets done. Now, the first one I showed you was kind of yolo mode, right? I just described what the app was and allowed Stitch to decide what it was going to do based on the context of my app. And so that is what we saw here. Now, in this next option, you'll notice it looks significantly different. There's an entirely different design DNA inside of this version. So, what differentiated the two of these? The only thing that was different is that this follows a style called claymorphism. So the only thing that's different is that I told it to use a claymorphism style. And then again, we get a wildly different design aesthetic. I don't really like this one for what I'm doing, but there's certain niches where something like this would work, I think, pretty well. Now, the third option that you have, and this is how I got this one that I showed in the beginning of the video for me redesigning one of my landing pages for a newsletter. This obviously has like a very distinct aesthetic to it. And this entire thing was generated from me just pasting in a thumbnail that I happen to have for a video that I liked and it kind of took that essence and turned it into an entirely new thing. And now in this version, all I said was, "Hey, I like what you did, but can you tone it down a little bit because this is feeling a little bit too techy for me?" So, these are your three options to generate those designs, but they're all based in having done the competitive research ahead of time to know how do I need to talk to this person? What do I need to say? And how should the landing page be structured? And the reason it's really helpful to think of it that way is that success in this type of stuff largely comes down to having a system. You have a system and you can plug your brain into that system, you can do pretty much whatever you want. So, I would say that this from my perspective is like half of the way there. I'd probably want to go through now and start iterating and dialing in different pieces to like really level it up. But what would you do from this point if you wanted to actually now build this thing? So, the thing that really ties all of this together and is something that I'm really excited about is that Stitch now has an MCP server and a skill ecosystem. So the translation of that is that what used to be the case is that if you wanted to get access to this thing, you had really two choices. Number one, you just download the images and try to have whatever tool you're using make a pixel perfect clone of that thing, which it was pretty bad at doing that. The second option was you could download the raw HTML and try to have your system like extract out the design and then go and build everything based on that HTML file. Both of those approaches kind of sucked to be honest. But now with these MCP servers and skills, we can directly connect to our stitch designs and just build it out from our computer and it comes out perfectly every single time. So let me show you how to do it. So I'm going to be doing all of this in anti-gravity because it has a free tier, but you can use this for any of the supported IDE that they have. Gemini CLI, cursor, anti-gravity, VS Code, cloud code, like whatever it is, you can use it with that. So, I'll have links to these docs below if you need to get to the point where you have this thing. But we're going to come through. We're just going to copy this. And then what we're going to do is we're going to go into a project that we want to run this with. So, what we're going to do from here is we're going to go up into our little agent chat on this right hand side. We're going to click additional options, MCP servers, manage MCP servers, and then there's this option here for view raw config. And so all you're going to do is paste in what we literally just copied. And then where it says Google API key, all you're going to do is paste in quotes your Google Stitch API key. And you can get that, by the way, very simply by going into Stitch, clicking your image in the top right, going to Stitch settings, and then just creating a key. Now, step two, like I said, is that there is a Stitch Skills library. And the reason that this is really valuable is that it helps us take what we had in Stitch and turn it into a design system that the language model knows to follow. It can build out everything we have in our designs as actual components and then it can loop through and actually build everything from scratch. So the translation of that is it's really good at extracting the design system and literally building out the exact design that you have inside of Stitch. So, all we're going to do to get access to this is copy that command. Then, we're going to go down into our project that we want to run this process with. And we're going to paste in that command and hit enter. It's going to ask for the skills that you want to use. I just pick all of them. You need to pick the IDE, in this case, anti-gravity. And in this case, I just want it installed in this project. And so, now what you're going to see is that all of these skills have been installed inside of this project. So, if I open up the project real quick, this is what it looks like before we've done any of the design. Now, I'm going to show you the prompt to turn this black screen into this fully complete project. So, this is going to be a simple command. Use the stitch MCP and the stitch skills in this project to build out Stitch 2 example from our account. Now, stitch to example is just the name of the project inside of Google Stitch. All right guys, so moment of truth. This thing is done and we are going to see what we got. And boom. Right. So from black screen, looks like we have some bug down in the bottom, but that's doesn't matter that much. Now we have a pretty nice clean landing page that we can come in and dial in as needed based on what it is that we are trying to sell. So this is really great. You can run this process that we went through for literally anything for building web applications, mobile apps, landing pages, newsletters, lead magnets, like literally whatever it is for your business, you can run this type of process. And like I said earlier, great design is an authority builder. So you should have some version of this process for yourself inside of your day-to-day workflows. So with AI where it is today, you already have all of the tools that you need. All you really need to do is find creative ways of gathering the context, slightly modifying it, and passing it to tools like this in order to get the outputs that you really need. And so this workflow is a great example of that in practice. So, if you like this video, I'm going to link to another one right around me somewhere where we actually use this same exact process to build app screens using Gemini 3.0. That is it for this video. I will see you in the next