The positions that are going to be well-paying and relatively stable and attractive in other ways are the ones that effectively include writing and voice. Essentially, you need to become a character in the mind of your market. It's not enough to just be knowledgeable, right? Like cuz there's plenty of knowledgeable people out there, especially once you get to a certain point. What people are looking for is I want someone that's going to give you the knowledge I need, but in a way that vibes. So, where voice matters a ton. >> Yeah, I know. Like writing voice is very difficult. It's I would say harder than many direct response skills. It's not an easy process. And this is also why you can charge a lot of money. I think if you can write in voice, everything else is just a workflow. What would you say are like some of the most important things to keep in mind when you're writing in voice? The foundational thing is to really deeply research the person you're writing as. I think one of the most powerful exercises I learned was whenever possible try to predict how they would say something or what their take on a certain topic would be because effectively what you really need is a mental model for yourself of how they think and speak which means you need to start predicting how they would say certain things even if you haven't heard them directly attack that topic but that being said like once you're in that seat sure it gets a lot harder to replace you at that point I actually do think that there's a lot choose to the idea that if you're not able to operate at this level that we're talking about in some capacity, your days are numbered. >> All right. So, here I am with Sean Mabberry. Thanks for joining me, man. >> Yeah. Thanks, Matt. I'm excited for this. >> Yeah. It's going to be really interesting. You've been in the game what, 10 years now? And >> 10 years. Yeah. >> Yeah. And you've uh you've done a lot of stuff and I know you've mentioned to me Bisop and fitness and health and you've been writing copy in all different like formats as well. and recently you've been >> in the like the ghost writing book writing space as well which I think is super interesting. So yeah, I'm looking forward to asking you loads of questions and and kind of learning about your journey and also you know insights on what you've learned through the years. Yeah, let's do it. >> Awesome. Um where shall we begin? Because uh I could go through one thing I think actually your audience might find kind of interesting is that I started inhouse as a copywriter. Uh, and I was in house for four and a half years before I ever went freelance, which I know a lot of times in this industry people want to just lead to being freelance and having a lifestyle and all that, which which is great. It's definitely doable. But, um, I I mean, you and I were both there for the sort of explosion of of copyrightiting as a bisop. And >> uh one thing I always found kind of interesting was the the the people frankly underestimating the difficulty curve of of you know learning not just the skill but the business surrounding the skill. And for me it was like well I I at least know I had the skill solid because I've been doing it at a really high level at the the company in-house. And even still there's a huge learning curve going freelance and learning how to run my own business. So, um, and that's one thing I will say I've always really appreciated about your work is that, you know, certainly compared to certain others, um, I found you very transparent about that and actually giving some some good advice on how to how to treat copyrighting as a business. >> Yeah. Well, this is an interesting thought that you bring up because of the I can probably count on one hand how many copyriters were in house for longer than four years. One person comes to mind. There's a few more. I'm like not exactly sure how long they were in the game, but definitely quite a long time in-house. And they're actually all the best writers I've ever worked with. I wonder what the I wonder why. I just wonder why. They just happen to be so really really good, you know? >> Yeah. Well, funny enough that actually kind of touches on the switch to ghostwriting, too, because one of the things that I I realized I started to make the switch was that in a sense it was it was kind of a homecoming for me because a lot of the work I was doing back at that company like yes, I was doing like what we would think of as copywriting, right? I was writing emails, I was writing, you know, VSSL scripts, um, sales, you know, webpage copy, anything you could think of. But also I was writing uh articles as the CEO in different publications and and even the the email writing I mean especially for for him because it was you very much like a personality brand. >> Yes, there was some teaching in emails but they were very like personality based too and I had to really learn his voice and his stories and and also be able to like kind of return to them and remix them and apply them to different offers, right? So even though it wasn't ghost writing in the same form I'm doing now, a lot of what I learned back then was actually really important prep for the work I'm doing now. >> Yeah, I know. Uh writing in like writing voice is is very difficult. It's I would say harder than many direct response skills because with direct response there's a lot of like flow and structure that you can kind of pull in from all over the internet and every sort of resource out there can serve your your goal. Like let's say for example when I was writing in bizop a lot of emails I could take bisop emails from plenty of different >> you know real estate bisop I don't know cryptobizop um Amazon back in the day when I was writing a lot of Amazon businesses were like a big part of the the trend you know. Mhm. >> Even even copyrighting bisop and and sales bizop, you know, you can take angles from all of that and use it. But when you're writing in somebody's voice, you have you have a very limited set of I guess you could call like keystone pieces that you can pull from to really, you know, you can't just pull from any niche or any sort of you can't just take from any part of the industry. You have to like really get the voice of this specific business owner. >> Yeah. like at at best I mean one thing we would do when we were writing those articles was he would have me go and research what were the top performing articles on you know any given topic I'd present that list to him and then present out what I would think would be our version of those topics and then he would like further refine and adjust from there to like say like oh like you bring in this story or like you know I have a slightly different take on that. So you can still draw inspiration from what other people are doing, but frankly like with like like you're saying with Bisop, I mean it bisop is a has very low sensitivity to voice, right? like people are very comfortable, you know, both on the the business owner side um but also ultimately on the consumer side because frankly most most business audiences don't really care if the owner is suddenly switching voice because they're using someone else's swipes. Like that's not really what they're they're looking for, right? Like if the opportunity is interesting, >> that's all they really need. Um, and so, you know, every bisop owner I've worked with, you know, over time they learned that like, yeah, you know, like I won't say the voice doesn't matter. Like I said, it's like a low sensitivity to voice that that there still is a a kind of general voice that they want to follow, but it's not nearly as uh strict as it is in other niches, right? Like I'll say fitness. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I actually, you know, probably out of everything I've worked on, if we're talking about like really high level business coaching, like people, you know, coaching you know, seven figure and eight and eight figure businesses up. That's a space where voice matters a ton because that audience knows that information is not that hard to find. What is hard to find is someone with real wisdom and experience. And part of how they sniff that out is that people who have that that quality speak in a certain way. and yeah also need to be able to differentiate themselves from other experts at that same level. And so >> that's the the kind of market pressure that makes a voice really really important. >> Like you need to stand essentially you need to become a character in the mind of your market. It's not enough to just be knowledgeable, right? Like because there's plenty of knowledgeable people out there, especially once you get to a certain point. What people are looking for is I want someone that's going to give you the knowledge I need, but in a way that that vibes, right? Like that's really the best word for it. I need it in a way that vibes with me. >> Um because >> at at this stage, right, like it's it's no longer about information per se. It's about um does this match my vision, right? Is this someone who is who is trying to accomplish similar things to what I want to accomplish? And that all comes through in the voice. >> There's also that aspect of when you're talking to somebody and you're a business owner to business owner, there's almost like a mirror more so than in Bisop. Because in Bisop it's like, "Hey, I'm here. I'm successful. I've done this stuff. Whatever I say I'm the authority on, especially with lower sophistication level audiences in Bisop." But with B2B, you really do have to sell, hey, you you know, we we we get it, >> you know, we we we're we get this, you know, and that's very difficult. And I think many copyriters struggle to get into B2B copy even though it's some of the highest paying copy because they don't know how to write in voice. So, what would you say are like some of the most, you know, most important things to keep in mind when you're writing in voice? I think the first the foundational thing is is to really deeply research the person you're writing as. And the the the again the kind of bare minimum is just like you have to like massively consume their content. like anything they've ever written before. Ideally, if they've done podcasts, like that's the thing I used to do back then is I would just mainline the dude's podcasts because he would go on appear on other people's podcasts and I would listen to the the episodes and just like kind of always have his voice in my ear, >> which also allowed me to pick up on all these different stories that he would tell across those those different podcasts, which then became things like, you know, there were certain things that he would share with me directly. He's like, "Hey, I want to we want to make sure we tell the story you," which is great. But then I learned how to pick up all these sort of hidden gems that even he didn't think about all that often or make a point of like, "Hey, let's talk about this." But I knew, well, actually, that's a really interesting story and there's a ton of different ways I can use that, so let me keep that in my back pocket and have it ready to pull out. Uh beyond that, I think one of the most powerful exercises I learned was whenever possible, try to predict how they would say something or what their take on a certain topic would be. Like what I was saying earlier about coming up with article ideas, that's kind of an example of that because I would look at what was trending, right? like I would look at like what were the the popular articles on a certain topic and in a sense I was boiling that down to a set of questions, right? Like each each topic is an implied answer to a question that the market has. So now I'm looking at those questions and I'm trying I'm doing my best to predict what would the CEO say about that. Like what for one like what would he what was he say, right? Like what is just like his raw advice, but how would he say it? like what stories would he bring in? What um what what feathers is he willing to ruffle, right? Like um which I think is another really important aspect about voice is that anyone who has built a really effective and long-standing personal brand, they they know they know where their line is in terms of broaching controversy. And that's a really tough thing to sus out from the outside. And again, this is something I see a lot of young copyriters. >> They, you know, they they because they get the advice like, "Oh, be polarizing. You know, you got to be abrasive. You got to be whatever." And there's truth to that, right? Like again, all those people with big effective brands are doing that on some level, but they've also figured out the lines they won't cross, right? Or like there are certain things where they will back up and give a more nuanced take. It can't just be like all offense, all, you know, uh, all sandpaper all the time. They learn, they've all learned that you have to be strategic with how you engage with controversy. There are certain things where it's like, yeah, like this is really core to who I am and what I do, so I'm going to really plant my flag and take a bold stance. And then there are other issues where it's like that's not really connected to what I do, so it's not worth touching, right? Like I'm not going to go wander into those waters and risk painting myself in a bad light if it doesn't actually serve what I do. And that's the kind of nuance you you you tease out over time as you absorb a lot of their work and and try to predict what they would say on a certain topic because effectively when when you're trying it it's one thing to you know research passively right like it's one thing gather up like okay here's all the things they've t they've talked about before but all that is is a record of the past. What you really need is a mental model for yourself of how they think and speak, which means you need to start predicting how they would say certain things, even if you haven't heard them directly attack that topic. And that's where taking that time to deliberately practice. Here's what I think they would say on this. And of course, ideally, this should, you know, the benefit of our process was that I wasn't just guessing. I had the the buffer of his coming in to review and making sure we were all on the same page, right? Um, and even then there were a few, you know, there were a few times where I went a little too far out on a limb and you had to reel me back in. But that's all part of the learning process, too. Like I think one of the things that's that's interesting with voice is in the beginning I really benefited from the fact that I had been there for so you relatively speaking so long. Like I think by the time by the time I even started ghostwriting those articles for him, I had probably been with the company two years already. So it wasn't like >> Yeah. >> You know, he'd hired me after my voice, >> right? Yeah. >> And during that time, you know, I' I'd impressed him with my work on the main company. I' I'd built a good relationship with him uh behind the scenes, right? So, like it was, yes, it was my writing ability, but it was also like the the the personal trust he had with me. Like, okay, Sean's a solid dude. Like, he he he will represent me well, even if it's all, you know, still under his name, but I know he's not going to, you know, spin out of control or say something wild when I when I put him in that seat. >> There's a lot of business owners that get concerned about this, especially thought leaders, cuz I've worked with a brand. Um, I worked with Dan Martell for a while and I was writing his copy and wrote in his voice and we had quite a lot of processes in in the business where we'd like write down things Dan would say, things Dan wouldn't say, things he stands for, you know, you know, quotes that he would um, quotes that, you know, popular that he likes to use, stories. We built a collection of these things. And I remember we used to run a call once every two weeks where he would come in for 30 minutes and he'd review all the copy from like a voice standpoint and he'd be like, "Yeah, I wouldn't say this or I would say this." And I remember the first six months of that process when I was starting to really write in his voice and I wasn't just writing like lead magnets and ads, which you can kind of get away with a little bit of stuff because it's, >> you know, it's not it was writing on his email list. When I started writing his emails, that that's when it started to become a challenge. And in Bisop, I could throw together an email in an hour, like a high quality one, a pretty high quality email with like quite a lot of thought into it. Dan's emails took me like four hours, you know, because I was sitting there >> as a young man with very limited business context. I didn't understand what it's like to build a million-doll company. I didn't understand what it's like to talk to software founders that are thinking of exiting the company for hund00 million. Like, he's got kids. how does like how do all these pieces fit in? And I just remember I was just really really overwhelmed by it. But the one exercise I used was I just sat down. I took all the previous copy that he had written himself and some of the copy that he liked the most and I'd handwrite it. And actually that's the one thing that I found was really useful for me because I didn't handwrite sales letters. You know, that's like the typical exercise that you use to start writing. I didn't really find handwriting helped me so much when I was learning the fundamentals of copyrightiting. But it like really helped me with voice. I really started to get into it and I actually I started to guess how he would say it next. So it's kind of cool that you bring that up because that I did actually end up relying on that a little bit and I started to get it. But it took me like 6 months, you know? Yeah. Took me like really it took me a long time. And I think that's also just being able to get into somebody's psychology and like really understand them. It's not an easy it's not an easy process. And this is also why you can charge a lot of money in this in this industry. Like if you're listening to this as a copywriter and you want to break into B2B, you know, thought leadership copy because I I would say this is mostly like thought leadership writing, you know, it's it's like how do you not only just put words on paper but sell thought leadership to somebody? That's a very very specific skill. And the top personal brands, they they they'll pay you a lot for it too. But the other thing is that they'll retain you if you know what you're doing. they won't want to let you go because there's very few people that you can delegate a voice to and trust that they'll stay on brand. You It's not easy, you know, >> right? And also the fact that the longer you sit in that seat because even even in the best case scenario, there's going to be a little bit of a calibration period, right? Where like you you just have to get to know each other, you just have to kind of find the the resonance, right? like you have to I mean I I'm at the point now where I I can I can make that process happen really quickly compared to a lot of people but it's still not instantaneous right and like and my clients understand that like um they're if anything they're just glad that it that it is you know faster than a lot of other people are. >> Yeah, of course. You know, >> but that being said like once you're in that seat it's not it's not just that they're they're paying you and investing you in that sense. They've also invested the time in you and they've invested that process of calibration and they know if they ever have to put someone else on seat, they have to do that whole process over again. And that that just adds to the pain of disconnect, right? Like not to say you're you know technically anyone can be replaced in business, but um it sure gets a lot harder to replace you at that point. Mhm. >> And uh you know on top of that, you know, you you mentioned like having that that review process. Like I remember when I even when I first took over his emails, it wasn't like an instant thing where it's like, oh, now you have the login of my email that you just, you know, send whenever I'm not even going to review. It's like went through this whole process where first I would write the emails, he would review or and then someone else would like upload and schedule them. Then eventually he would review, but I could go and schedule them when they were done. And then eventually it was completely hands-off where it's like, "Okay, Sean's just going to send, you know, two emails a day or whatever." And we just leave him, leave him, right? No micromanagement involved. But it took me basically proving myself through each of those steps to show that I actually could hold that responsibility. And I remember the the the the first one of the first times that I had an email come back with no edits, >> I I was on cloud9. I was like, "Oh my god, >> I crushed it." Um because I understood like that that's such an important milestone for this kind of work because it shows that you really have captured their voice so well because it's like if if they don't have any edits it means like wow I I read this and it sounds like me, right? Or at least it sounds so close to me that you know I'm not it's not worth splitting hairs past a certain point. M >> um and I think that's the thing too like people who have become thought leaders you know we talk about a lot of times in business the the like Harvard delegation rule it's like 80% is good enough and I think in in most business functions highle CEOs are really good at doing that and that's part of why they're high level CEOs right >> when it comes to voice it very I've never met anyone really who's willing to settle for 80% right what we really want is more like >> totally >> 95 97 >> 90 90 99 90 99 90% you know yeah yeah like even if you do 95% they'll still be happy to like make edits at the end right >> you know if they can make it 100% cuz this is something that's very very personal to them you know Dan Martell used to refer to it as scaling his voice it's like oh how do we how do we scale the voice and that's a very >> you know what this conversation is very very unique I actually don't talk to many copyriters who have gone this deep with voice and it was quite isolating for me because most of the most of my friends were writing funnel copy and and and webinars and and and you know VSSLs and all all like emails and ads and and and then here I was just trying to get Dan's voice right and it was like quite a difficult process especially like I said because I didn't I think the hardest thing for me was I didn't understand how to be a business owner back then you know yeah >> today it's a lot easier because I've built my own business so there's a lot of things that you know I can I can speak on and personally resonate with, you know, but I think that there was so much of a learning curve cuz not only do you have to sell to these millionaires pain points to them, you have to describe their pain points in a way that millionaires describe their pain points. And also like profiling a customer, business owner as a customer, their the clarity about their problems is part of the reason they're on the phone is that they don't quite know what the issue is a lot of the time. So, how do you communicate the problem when they're not even entirely sure what their issues? They just think like how do we get more sales or how do we convert more opportunities and and then on top of that there was also the aspect of I was writing in Bisop and now we're talking to software founders. How do software founders talk about acquisition? They say convert opportunities you know uh bring more you know bring more customers into the business. Um you know they don't say funnels they say acquisition channel you know there's like nuance. So like learning the customer and learning the industry and learning the type of business owner and learning Dan's voice all at the same time while I had other clients was a pretty stressful process for me, you know, and it was very um but I I would I would definitely say of all the work I've done as a copyriter, my favorite thing to do is voice, which is why like I want to go deeper in this, you know, it's just it's so interesting to me because I learned so much. I take so much more away from it than just the the the paycheck. I remember working with Dan. I didn't care about how much they paid me. It paid me well, you know, but like I didn't care because for me, I was learning how Dan thinks. I was learning how he frames things. I was seeing his perspective and how he runs his company. And even on team meetings when he was speaking, I'd be like taking notes like he says it this way. You know, sometimes he leaves the meeting, he's like, "Peace." And he like disappears after the meeting. And I'll like write it down. Okay, that's how I say it. You know, like I'm going to put peace at the end of the email with like the the the peace the peace emoji, you know, but it's it is a very it's a very unique skill. So over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them, and you want to join us, and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry, and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. Man, there's a lot of there that I can I can speak to as well because uh I I had such a similar experience when I was going through that process, especially still being an in-house copywriter, right? Like there was definitely a period of kind of looking, you know, looking with envy at other freelance copywriters and the things they were talking about and especially when they were in niches that, you know, like you're saying are a little bit more plugandplay. um and thinking like, man, they make it look so easy and they and they're, you know, apparently making so much more money and have so much more lifestyle freedom or whatever. >> They're writing emails in 30 minutes and here I am busy pulling my hair out over one email for like four hours. You know what's going on here? >> Now, that being said, I eventually got to the point which actually this this is a good thing to drill into. I did get to a point where I could write emails for him in not even like like I think 12 minutes was probably my my record. um you know reliably, you know, I I could just bang them out. In fact, I actually got to a weird point where even though I was, you know, in-house on a salary, you know, working in an office, I I hit this point where it's like I don't actually know how to fill eight hours a day because I've gotten so efficient at all the things on my list and like I there's only so much you can do to to invent a project, right, when you're inside of a business that size. And that was really one of the things where I I started to realize like I I kind of have to go freelance because >> yeah, >> I don't I don't feel good about this. Like I I feel like I'm kind of wasting my potential here. >> And and I like if all I did was do the same like core actual work that I'm doing here in four hours a day versus eight, right? Um while collecting the same amount of money, like I I could start having that lifestyle freedom, right? But that's because I'd already built those muscles when I was in house. And part of how I did it was that I I started setting myself a timer when it's like actually the first few times I did it, I I was not setting a timer. I was timing myself. So I would just see like, okay, how long does it take for me to finish an email? Like from idea in my head to email finished, hit send, right? And that probably was like, you know, anywhere from like an hour to 90 minutes per email in the beginning. >> And then all I did was, okay, so that's now the benchmark. Can I bring it down by 10 minutes? And then another 10 minutes and then another 10 minutes. >> Interesting. Yeah, you made a challenge for yourself. >> Yeah. So that's how I got so fast is that I literally like drilled myself to to get and and I didn't try to go from, which is a mistake I see a lot of, you know, newbie copyrighters make. I didn't try to go from taking an hour to taking 15 minutes. That's insane. Like um like you're you're just going to spin out. But I by by deliberately walking that down and even that I mean that was maybe a couple months all told of going from taking an hour to getting it down to 15 minutes. But it was because I'd very deliberately drilled through each of those intermediate steps. Right. I didn't try to eat the whole elephant in one bite. Um, >> and it's interesting now because that that was a competitive advantage for me. Absolutely. When I first went freelance and people saw how fast I could work because remember this is all pre-I like there was uh I I went freelance. Check out my timing. January 1st of 2020. So right before lockdown and everything that came with that um was when I were in freelance. And so my timing was was super interesting. But people picked up like, "Oh my god, this dude's like really like not he's not just good. He's good fast and good, which is rare." And yeah, and this was all just me manually just just following my own process. I I I didn't even in fact I was a I would say I was a relatively slow adopter to AI. I was very suspicious of it in the beginning because I saw some of the early outputs and I was like, are you kidding me? Like I would never I would be ashamed to run this, right? M do you think it's partially because of the fact that you went so deep with voice that you can just see so many limitations with it cuz I felt the same way and many copyriters didn't pick up on it and they were like no it's great >> and it's like the the nuance of what I had to go through to really master even to the like even the punctuation to get right for Dan Martell you know and and it's not that maybe he even pushed that on me so much it's just that that's how I wanted to be about the work you know you ask AI to do anything like that it's just like forget it, you know, it's just even now it's still not that great at voice, you know, like there's some ways you can train it up >> and and you but but it's like it's you that's setting it up for success. Like if you just give somebody a a chat window and like yeah, right in voice, >> there's a lot of work that needs to, you know, happen before it can actually start to spit out stuff that's pretty close, you know? Well, and what's interesting is that I I do use AI and but I'm but my I have a very specific process for how I use it and there's a ton of like I mean I have a so for each uh client project now uh with the bookw writing I have this very specific voice document that like it it's it's mostly templated out now. There's like specific sections I fill in uh per client and then there's certain things that I just that are kind of just global like they apply to everyone. But that thing's like I did three pages long. >> Yeah. >> And that that's just the foundation. >> Then there's like I have very specific practice for like the the like how I structure my projects in Claude and CHP. I use them both um for different things. I have specific like ways I I I prompt it in the thread. And then even when I have something in front of me like I never just stop at the first output. I will I I'll grill it. I'll be like, "Well, walk me through your thinking on that section cuz I I'm not quite sure what you're going for there, right?" And it'll be like, "Oh, like this." And I'm like, "Okay." You know, it kind in the same way that I would I would coach a human junior copywriter. Um, which is funny too. I mean, that's something that like, you know, I Sean from a year or two ago would be shocked to hear me say what I'm about to say, but I actually learned that there there's real value in being nice to the robot and the because in the beginning I was very impatient with it, right? It's like, oh, you're a robot, I shouldn't have to explain, right? Like if you're if AI is supposedly so smart, >> but there is something that shifts when you you speak to it as a collaborator. I want to be clear, I understand that it's not an actual collaborator, right? It's still just a tool at the end of the day, but the way even just the because because ultimately affects your own thought process like if you are patiently taking something that the time to explain something that's not working, that actually forces you to think more clearly. And that I think is where there's a lot of alarmism around AI that I I don't I really don't agree with because I think that people are just being way too black and white with their thinking. They're they're they're treating every all AI use is like, oh, I'm just completely surrendering my brain to the bot and I'm not putting myself into it at all. It's like, well, if you choose to use it that way, then yeah, you're going to suffer the consequences, as you should, but there's a whole range of other options there, and you can be very like deliberate and thoughtful with your process and get the benefit of speed, which is a real important benefit and a real advantage. Um, I mean, certainly now with my ghost writing clients, that's one of the things that's a huge selling point for me is that I can get the book done so quickly. Uh, but that being said, like I've not surrendered my command of voice. If anything, I I I'm applying at a whole different level now. Like I can be way stricter about certain things. Actually, you know, it's funny. >> Um, Jason Fladlin put up a really po interesting post about this a while back where he was saying >> that once he started doing a lot more scripting with the AI for his webinars, then he started obsessing over things like tonality and all these other things outside of the script. which I I thought was such a beautiful breakdown because it shows that he, you know, and this is Jason we're talking about, right? The guy really knows his stuff. He's not being any less intentional with his work. What he's doing is now he has the opportunity to put that intention in different places because the baseline has already been covered by the AI and it's able to do that part really quickly. >> So yeah, I I I've been all over the map on it. I went from being like a really hardcore AI skeptic to like No, I I I love it. I love I love it as a tool, but I'm also very realistic about what it can actually do and how it actually works. >> Yeah, there's lots of different um there's lots of different applications and you really got to actually know what you're doing as a writer. I actually tell a lot of newer riders, don't even don't even touch it because you should just learn to write first. I think it's easier. Like, yeah, sure, you can use it in certain parts of the process, >> but but newer riders, I think a lot of the time you're handicapping yourself. I wanted to just bring up something real quick before we go on to, you know, the topic of I actually want to ask you a bit about the documentation you do for voice and like how you >> how you categorize. I think that's interesting. We were talking about getting faster and faster at email. >> So what actually happened to me, I'm very curious what you think of this too. I actually got slower at email over the first few years because I kept learning how to be better. So like at first when I wrote my first few emails, I was quite slow. Took me took me about a day. Then I got pretty good. It got me to like 1 hour, let's say, in bisop. And then after that, I started to learn how to close properly. I started to learn how to believe shift properly. I started to learn how to improve the lead, how to tell better stories, how to include different aspects of a story. Suddenly, emails I would look at from a year ago, I would have spent the whole extra hour editing because I just wasn't happy with them. So, actually, what happened was almost like a Dunning Krueger effect, right? It's like you think you're so great, then you realize you suck, >> and then when and then like the more the more you learn, the more you realize there's to do and then your actual time increases. So I think for some copyriters, I would just say just be be aware of that. Like as you learn, you might actually end up at least in my case, you might end up writing a bit longer for a while, but once those principles started to click, my editing process is where most of the work, most of the time was spent was editing. Most of it today, I don't edit. honestly like really very rarely need to edit stuff. It it's very much five minutes of editing to polish up. Most of the time the flow is already, you know, I already know what the flow is. And even with Dan, you know, I was spending 4 hours in the beginning, first five, six months. The next 6 months, it got to like maybe 2 hours and then it would get to about 1 hour when I knew the topic pretty well. There were still lots of things I I didn't know cuz again, I was learning this the software niche. I think I got to around about an hour. But other niches after that, I tell you, anything anything outside of, you know, B2B um coaching, I could it it was like anything was easy after that. I think if you can write in voice, everything else is just a workflow. That's been my that's been the way I've been talking about it these days. I've just realized like every type of copy project is literally just a collection of systems and workflows. And it's really just one skill. It's like command over the English language in all the different aspects of it. And if you can own the English language and you really have command over what you want to say, then anything you need to write is just different process. So like VSSL, your research process is just different. Maybe with bisop VSSLs, what I spend time on is what are the competitors promising and what mechanisms are they using? How do I make my promise and my hook different, you know? Whereas if I'm writing, I don't know, let's say um personal brand email copy, I don't think I spend as much time on the competitor research. I spend a little bit more time on like what's happening in the industry and in the market right now that's hot because that might be something more interesting to talk about on the list, you know? So, like your workflow just slightly changes and I think more copyriters need to think about that. Like you just if you if you're listening to this and you're like, oh, you know, I'm I feel like I've boxed myself as an email copyriter or I want to get more into voice or I want to, you know, write for a personal brand or whatever it is. It's like a lot of these things you actually can do. You just have to adopt a different workflow for those different processes. And this is why I think, you know, it's very similar like you're now doing um ghost writing. Is it is it it's a it's a different workflow, right? But it's the same skill. Am I right by that? Or is there is there something missing there? >> There's a lot to tease out there. So, for one thing, I think with I do think there's kind of a divide between, you know, what I call the the the workhorse copywriter and the the the creative copywriter, which I think we it's important to be able to wear both hats. And I have worn both hats over the course of my career. Uh there are times where a client you particularly I find with retainers a lot of times at at the end of day that's going to be probably a workhorse role because what they're looking for is we know a certain like this type of copy that we need who email is a prime example of this where we just need like really like sustained volume of something that's at at the good enough point >> that and just just keep that wheel turning, right? like we're not looking to to reinvent the wheel. >> Now, if you're talking about something like a product launch, that's more the creative side, right? Where it's like we need someone like like what you're describing to, you know, look at the landscape, see what's interesting, see what people are already obsessed over, tie our big idea into that somehow, right? like and that is a different workflow in the sense that I think it I think it works a slightly different set of muscles, right? Like if you're going to be just grinding out the same kind of content over and over again at high volume. >> Um frankly that that's the thing that AI was was already good at, right? You know, with a little bit of training. Um, and the the the more creative stuff like is is, you know, in some ways more fun and more satisfying, but it but it is also tough to switch from being in the workhorse role to doing that, right? And like that's where, you know, one of the things I I copyrighters really don't talk about enough is being able to essentially project manage yourself and block out different parts of your week to be like, "All right, this is these are the workhorse hours. This is where I just like bang through stuff and get it done. This is the focus deep work, right? This is where I like can solve big creative problems." >> Because you're not going to do it by constantly switching back and forth between the two. like you have to have defined blocks of time around each of those because it's such a it's a totally different frame of mind. Um, and that's, you know, beyond that, like I think I I really like what you said about mastering the English language because I can go even further back on that. I went to school for creative writing. I actually have an English degree and I'm and I write for a living. I'm one of the those rare unicorns. Um, and if you would asked me around the time of graduation, I would have told you like, "Oh, yeah. I'm going to go become an English professor." Like, that's how serious I was about it. And it it was funny because I actually I even went and and took my uh uh subject test uh in literature. And uh realized in the testing room that I actually didn't want to go down that path anymore because by that point I was I was deep enough into the marketing job that I was starting to fall in love with it. And I knew that like I was going to make a lot more money sooner doing that, right? and and also you know by that point I was already like reading the Gary Halbert letters and saw like oh there's this whole lifestyle aspect I can get to at some point right >> so I had that dream and suddenly the thought of being a professor is like like I don't know about that anymore >> but my my love of you know literature and English uh remains unchanged and uh you know like I was saying earlier that's part of the homecoming aspect of now you know getting to write books for people is that I I love the process of going really deep into one project at a time. uh like if I you know if I had my my brothers like I I'll take those kind of projects all day long because that is where I find the best use of my talents and also I find a there's a weird sort of like comfort and security I find in that like it's in some ways it's a lot easier for me to be in the middle of a really big complicated project versus having to bang out a bunch of like smaller projects end to end. Um, to me that's that's I can do it, but that's more overwhelming, right? And it's funny because I know a lot of people would hear that and think it's the opposite, like, oh, I'd rather like bang out the easy projects back toback. And maybe that's true for you, right? I think everyone's I think we're all wired a little bit differently in terms of what workflow makes sense for us. I have learned that I I'm a project guy. I love being deep in a project. And that was again one of the many factors that led into the the switch to ghost writing is that once once I saw it for what it was, I was like, "Oh man, this actually fits my natural workflow beautifully." Like I I'm the guy that that wants to just like bury myself in one thing at a time and then emerge like here it is. >> Have you done the Colby before? Colby a index. >> Oh boy. Years ago. I I forget what my answer. I'm just wondering now thinking to myself if you like got a very high fact find a high follow through >> because if you like lots of deep projects and you like to go into the the details of stuff and get stuck into a big project that's the kind of profile that I've seen like I I often get copyrighters to take the colby a index >> when I coach them and they show me their flow and there's actually like two different main profiles I've seen from the hundreds of copyrighters I've coached uh privately. The one has a very high followthrough and a very low quick start. And if you you guys don't know what this is, you guys go check it out. It's pretty interesting. It's actually one of my favorite tests. I find this one personally is actually my favorite profiling test for like professional work. >> It's like if you have a if you have a high follow-through, you you're you're good in businesses where you can take something that's happening and make it really really good and go deep in the project and make it strong. If you don't have a very high followthrough, like me, I got a two out of 10. Okay, two follow through. I'm very good at starting projects. I have a I have a nine out of the 10 for quick start, which is like super super um I guess the difference between the two would be, >> you know, like the Nvidia CEO, same thing for like 30 years or something. And then there's the Richard Branson where it's just hundreds of different companies, you know, that's like the two different types of profiles. I'm a bit more like the Richard Branson side where it's like I like to do lots of different things and have my you know have my head space in lots of different places which is why I've enjoyed coaching so much is because there's always a new project always a new conversation I don't like I get quite I struggle to do one thing for a very very long time and I don't think it's just an ADHD thing by the way whoever's listening because a lot of people just think oh I just have ADHD it's like maybe you don't have ADHD maybe your brain just likes lots of chaos that's what makes you a creative some creatives don't um some creatives want to take one piece of chaos and make into a masterpiece and I get the impression that you're a little bit more on that side, right? And I think that's uh yeah, so it's it's it's very interesting. Um so for me, what's happened recently besides the you know like the fact that I like short like um I like these pieces. I used to write lots of email copy because of that and I didn't enjoy sales letters as much because it's one project for three weeks sometimes you you sit there and you to write this. um as an entrepreneur now because I'm building the education business where we're coaching copyriters, it's it's become actually a lot more difficult to write copy because when I used to have like four different clients and I was just a freelance copyriter, you know, you're still in copy mode. So all my workflow is just copy. Maybe I'll take a couple of team meeting calls here and there, but I'm like mostly switched off to be honest on the team calls unless it's about something related to marketing or copy. You know, if it's like an all hands or whatever and everybody's >> just talking about the I kind of like switch off a little bit, you know, but so I didn't really it's not I'm not as engaged in it. Whereas >> now if I have calls, I'm the leader of the call. So I'm I have to be fully present on the call, you know, and running a company. Then you have other things like building the product, building the systems, going into ops, you know, communicating with um uh media, you know, for like this these videos for example, like reviewing titles and and thumbnails and and um you know, overseeing some of the processes that and and you know, giving approval and and and stuff like that. It's like these are all these little things and they've actually taken a lot of my deep work out of my of my uh my life. Like four years ago, I had so many more deep work blocks and I'm starting to appreciate it more. The more you said it, I was just like I took a note here. I was like, "Okay, I need to ask you about how you create deep focus blocks because this is definitely where I'm going to get more of my best work done because I've definitely found my copy. Um, you know how it is with copy is, you know, it's it's the time that you invest that often indicates the quality, but like it's the focused time and some of my copy could be a lot better. And I just know that the solution to that is a deeper focus. So, how do you create that deep focus? Oh, just one more thing before you answer this, just because I think a lot of copyriters that are freelance have the same challenge because when you're a freelance copywriter, I had the opportunity and privilege of working with many retainer clients that stayed for multiple years. I had one client stick with me for five years. So, even as a freelancer, I had long long long um LTV, I guess you could call it. So, I wasn't constantly looking for clients, but when you're a freelancer and you have the sort of like feast and famine sort of thing where you're constantly closing deals and having to go find deals, that's definitely something that pulls you out of writing. And I'm I'm I'm convinced from my coaching experience that that actually takes a lot of the quality away for many people because like you said, they're not thinking about this deep focus as much because they're being pulled into like closing clients or sales calls or trial projects and then brand new projects for a business. It's like when do you you know you got to create that deep focus. So anyway, with all that said, uh what's your uh what's your secret? Yeah, I mean I think that that's such a good question and there's I I think it's worth nailing down some some core principles um really at the mindset level and then we can kind of drill down to the more tactical stuff from there. So one thing is to understand that the the purpose of deep work is to to create something transformative, right? like something that is not just like oh we we you know we need another batch of emails written like in my mind like that's maintenance work. Maintenance work needs to get done right and it's important to to do it reliably and at the desired level of quality um which that's another thing we'll come back to. that the ultimately if you're going to devote deep work to something, it should be something that that makes a dramatic difference in your company, right? Like uh so in the beginning it could be something like a new sales letter if you're launching a new product that you know is like you know wildly different than whatever you've done before. Um, or it could be like I'm going to carve out some time to like really deeply research you first off create my dream 100 and then start deeply researching and and forming portfolios on each of those people so that I know exactly how I want to reach out and what customize, you know, like specific tailored strategy I'm going to do for each of them. That would be deep work if you're a freelancer, right? because that's something that once once you've accomplished that task that's not a little thing that that could that that could be career changing if you get just one of those people right so that's worth putting in that deep focused energy and I think that's the that's the first thing is you got to you have to really understand what your big levers are and what is worth applying deep work to >> deep work is not just being able to kind of bury your head in a project because you because it's fun Like that's a really important distinction. >> It has to be an actual needle mover, >> right? Uh beyond that, like when it comes to the other side of that coin, which is the, you know, the kind of workhorse stuff, this is where, you know, this is where Parkinson's law applies. And it's funny because I always I I I I was I was incredibly strict with myself. I used to like, you know, track my pomodoros obsessively and like try to like fit, you know, I I challenge myself to fit more into each pomodoro, right? Um, after a certain point I wasn't like that strict with it just because it became so important. >> I'm pretty sure you have a high followthrough back to that Colby from this conversation. I'm very >> I'm pretty sure. Yeah. >> Yeah. Also very low quick start. Those tend to go together. But >> Mhm. >> My because my goal very consciously was because this is maintenance work, I just want to hammer through it as fast as humanly possible just to free up more of my my time for the deep work. Because if if you don't it's one thing to like make the time blocks in your calendar, but if this this time block keeps spilling over right into the time block you're you're saving for the deep work, well that defeats the purpose, right? >> The the goal is not to arbitrarily block block in the time. And actually my my buddy uh Dean Trinklin has a really good approach to this where he talks about having uh you have free days which is like you're not doing anything. That's ideally your weekend, right? At least one day of it. Um, fully disconnected from the from the business. You're just like being a human, recharging. That's your free day. Buffer days are admin work, maintenance work, anything that has to get done but isn't a big needle mover. And then finally, you have your your deep work days. And in the beginning, you may you you most people's week realistically is going to look like one deep work day or maybe even like a half a day of deep work and then everything else is buffer and then maybe get that free day. But if you at least can do that consistently and protect that deep work time like your life depends on it, you can start to expand that out, which also on the other side of the coin, it puts in the pressure to like actually make everything else streamlined and reduce those buffer days down because it's not like those tasks are going to go away. They still have to get done, but you can develop better systems and better habits to get through them faster. M >> that's kind of the big you know mindset layer to this when it comes to the the meat and potatoes like I like I said very I I like the Pomodoro meth method I would say any and there's like different lengths of Pomodoro just experiment see what feels best and then beyond that like this is where I think people a lot of freelancers get really stuck in their head around like I don't I don't need an accountant I don't need this, I don't need that. And and in my mind, it's like if anything that takes a a task off my plate, >> I will spend money on it, right? Cuz I I need the time back, right? That's my deep work time. Like if if I'm like I like I've I don't know if I've ever I I don't think I've done my own bookkeeping once since going freelance. Like I getting an accountant was one of the first >> done my books. Yeah. >> Right. >> And like which I know from people that sounds like, right? I mean, dude, I basically was paying for it before I could afford it, but it was because I knew like, and also because like I'm really not a much of a numbers guy and I'm not a paperwork guy. Like, I can do those things, but I hate them, right? So, like that's just a massive energy drain for me. Let that get that off my plate because I know once that's off my plate, I can make good use of the time I get back. Um, so then beyond that, the I think the last big piece there is when it comes to the deep work time, paradoxically, and this is what I mean about switching mindsets because it's it's so it's going to sound so paradoxical if you're not used to this workflow, you have to let yourself forget the clock entirely. Like the goal of deep work, and in fact, this is this is very >> one of my Yeah. One of the things I look for and part of how I know I'm on track is that if is is to see if I even can disappear into the task because if I can't, that's a signal. That's a signal of, you know, potentially misalignment >> or knowing that I'm playing too small or any number of things, right? Like that's when it's kind of my job to sit back and be like, "All right, why is it why is the the magic not here?" Right? Because I know when I have the magic, it's very clear. So, why isn't it there? Like, maybe I need to be going bigger, maybe I need to actually go be going smaller. It just depends. Like, it it and this kind of comes back to the the overall strategy and where you're at in your business. Um, but for me, it if if I if I'm watching the clock during my deep work time, that's a problem. That's a really big problem. you want to be able to kind of just lose track of time because >> the funny thing is I am I would say I'm equally efficient in my deep work time as I am when I'm in my workhorse mode. Uh it's in fact I could I've never done this but maybe I should just for funsies. I bet my raw like word count per hour is nearly identical in both modes, but I'm putting that word count towards something totally different in each bucket. And in this bucket, I'm obsessing over time because I need to reduce time. I need these things to take less time. In this bucket, I'm ignoring time because that would actually slow down my word count and that would make me less creative because I'm, >> you know, I'm I'm trying to optimize. There's an old saying uh you've you you've probably heard this one before from uh from Hemingway. Hemingway was famous for saying write drunk, edit sober. Now, I don't recommend that literally um at all. But what I think is interesting about that idea is it does speak to how like the raw creative brain and the editor brain are very different. In a sense, the the the the raw creative brain does kind of write like a drunk, and it should like it's just kind of like, oh, what about this? What about this? What about this? Right? Just kind of like stirring the pot, seeing what bubbles up. The editor is the part that steps in and says like, okay, but here's the structure we need to fit into. This is the big goal we need to accomplish. This is how we trim the fat. Right? you're going to have a a nightmare of a time if you try to wear both those hats at once because they have opposite purposes. One side is generating raw material, the other side is is reducing down material to get to what's necessary. You can't do both at once. It's it it just doesn't work. I need to get more deep work in. This is this has been good. I think the the one thing that definitely helped me um in my freelance career and it's something I still live by. I learned it from Vichan actually from Mine Valley. I watched a video of his at some point and he he said it's some billionaire's schedule. I think that I don't even remember. I'll paraphrase but basically he said along the lines of this guy only does meetings on Tuesday and Thursday or something like this. He doesn't have meetings on Monday because if he's traveling then if he gets back like he needs that buffer day. And I applied it. I was like, "Okay, I'm going to have all my meetings on Tuesdays and all my meetings on Thursdays and then I can catch all the and then between those meetings, I'll catch all the pieces of operations for my business and like all the maintenance stuff. But try block out as much as possible Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays for deeper work. And I've done that for probably 3 years now. And it's the only actual structured schedule that I've been able to follow with my low follow through um you know Colby profile. I I really really >> benefited from it because I'll have one many Tuesdays um in a year, let's say maybe even five or 10. I'll have literally 10 hours of calls, >> but then I have no calls on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. Literally could be maybe okay, I I have two call calls I show up for every Thursday. But I can literally have some weeks where there's just all Tuesday calls. I show up, I'm in speech mode, I'm in presentation mode, I'm I'm on camera, I'm I'm visible, I'm like doing the talking stuff and then that's it. And then I have this whole week where there's nothing and it's just creative space. And I think that, you know, from this conversation, I'm realizing that there's definitely a lot of times that even in during those days, I'm pulling myself back into, you know, management stuff, you know, reviewing things, checking on this, checking on this, having text conversations with clients, you know, just kind of getting myself into sand tasks. And those things are all like really obviously very important, but they have their place. And it's like, no, >> I need to actually sit and do deep work. And maybe to add to, you know, what you were saying about if you look at the clock, it's it's not good if you go and check your messages or you basically do anything that you're not really doing work. It's like that is an indicator that you're not resting in the resting or or or truly living in that in that deep work. I don't think it's I think I think as a copyriter in 2026, this is this is very important. It's good. It's very good. I think it's essential like you know you had asked me before the call about different trends in the industry that we might want to talk about and one of the things that has really been on my mind is I I'm not like a full AI doomer in the way that a lot of people in the space are. But I actually do think that there's a lot of truth to the idea that if if you're not able to operate at this level that we're talking about in some capacity, your days are numbered, right? like not that all copyrightiting is going to get taken over by I don't think that that that's true but I think that the the positions that are going to be well-paying and relatively stable and attractive in other ways are the ones that effectively include writing in voice, right? Or at least include some like highly creative layer that goes beyond like, >> hey, I bought this pack of templates, right? like um you know to the degree that that was ever a viable strategy which is very debatable um not in 2026 like like you you and I think what people don't understand and I think is so important to tell up and coming copyriters is that that can seem like this intimidating distant thing that like only people who are already like A-listers or whatever get to do But I actually don't think that's true at all. Like there are pockets of real like creative opportunity at every level. The differentiator is do you actually have the courage to seize those opportunities >> and display your work like even just internally, right? even even just in front of the client because that is the thing that will make you stand out as like you know what even if there's someone else that can write a little bit faster or is better at using AI or whatever it is this is someone who's willing to take creative chances and so when there's a there's a project that requires that and there will always be a project that requires that that's the guy we want to put there >> and that thing >> is rare and I think I think it's increasing ly rare. Actually, I think as more and more people turn to AI as some sort of, you know, magic, you know, machine god, that's the exact quality that they're losing, that that's the actual thing that they're sacrificing without even realizing it. And the good news is, as long as you're one of the people that doesn't make that sacrifice, there's always going to be a path for you. >> So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. Even in Bisop, you know, because in Bisop I was writing with um I was writing emails for Danlock back in 2018, 2019 >> and you know, we we made a lot of money with that email list that a lot more money than we would have if we were just writing basic bisop emails cuz I remember back then that was all I was doing >> and that's it for for hours I would sit there and pour creative love into those emails. That's I was thinking of deep work that we were talking about earlier. That was that was some of my fondest memories with deep work cuz that was all I was focusing on. There was no other conversations. I was just sitting there writing these emails. People remember them. You know that's crazy. Like to me some people will tell me even even like last year somebody said, you know, I still enjoy that butterfly email that you wrote. I still remember the the Marathon Monks email. They remember the marathon monks emails. Like I wrote that email to an email list of bizop and people still remember some of my emails from back then. And you know, I guess that's that's a testament to what you're saying because people remember those emails and you know, that launched my career. People recognized that I was a good email copyriter, but because I put the love into the work there. >> Yeah. >> You know, that that that like spoke for itself there. And I I don't think um I don't think I've written emails at that level since just because of all the other work I've been doing. It's like I never got back to that that level of love and creativity until now I'm working on it, you know? But like I don't think it's ever been quite as good as it was when I was writing for Dan, you know. So yeah, that I think this is the kind of thing that like AI won't do. Like AI is not going to come up with a marathon monk's email for a bisop offer. It, you know, it might come up with some random stuff if you prompt it to, but the love is not going to be, >> you know, AI doesn't feel. So you need to be able to feel the feel the work, right? Feel the work. And that's actually another thing with voice, right? when you when you're writing in voice, what is the what are what are the emotions that your client is, you know, evoking in in his audience? Can you embody those emotions yourself and then write to that audience? There's a lot of energy work in in good copy. You know, >> I feel it's funny actually. I'm I'm you know uh since you bring it up I was telling someone else the other day one of the things that I love and this is again it's one of the things I look out for when I'm working on the Brook proposal for a new client uh which essentially if you even anyone who doesn't know what that is that's essentially it's sort of the call it the outline with a little bit of like kind of market research tacked on um it's essentially sort of like the blueprint for what the book is going to be when I'm working on that I know I'm on track because there's this there's this kind of spooky feeling where it feels like I'm talking to some sort of entity inside of the proposal itself. It's like the the spirit of the book is already there >> informing me what the book needs to look like, right? And >> that, you know, even and that's the thing I I I use AI at that stage, too. Like I I'll I'll throw things out in the outline and say like, "Hey, like what if we move this around? Like give me some other options for this, right?" But none of that is a replacement for that that feeling where it's like I I can feel the thing coming through ready to emerge and and he and my job is to help it along. You know, my job is to shepherd it into this world. Like I think a lot of creativity in my view is the act of bringing forth things that kind of already exist on on you know on some other plane and they and they they want to come through and they're trying to find the right person to help them do that. Isn't Michelangelo an example of that where I think he said something along the lines of like the David and the Marble >> statues and Yeah. Yeah. That's it. It's like it's already it's already inside. >> He said the the story goes that somebody asked him like how did you carve uh David the statue of David and he said, "Well, I I I took the slab of marble and then I just removed everything that wasn't David." >> Yeah, that's it. Yeah, I love it so much. >> Yeah, I love that story. >> Um Stephen King actually has a really good metaphor for it, too. It's the random things I I read years ago, but in his book on writing, which is which is a weird book overall, like I I don't think know how useful it is as a writing guide. But there's this amazing passage where he talks about his work as archaeology. Like he finds this thing poking out of the dirt and then he keeps scraping the dirt away and uncovering and covering covering and then and like he doesn't even know the shape of it. Like un you know, it's one thing to know the shape in the marble already. He's saying, "I don't even know the shape of this thing until I've gotten it out of the dirt, and then I can maybe, you know, polish it out, but I have to dig the thing up first to even know what it is." And I I think with with my process, I wouldn't say I go I go quite that far in terms of like I do know what the book is going to be. But that being said, like one of the things that uh is is key to my process is >> I'm not married to anything in that outline document. like cuz cuz invariably what happens is as we get deeper into the process like I get to know them better. They've seen some of the the book already that changes the conversations we have and new opportunities emerge that are so much better. So I'm like well of course I'm going to take that, right? Like I I just actually had I had this happen twice last week where I was working on the the kind of middle third of two different client books. And in both cases, the the the the second interview um that was meant to fill in those those chapters, they they threw out all these these new ideas where I'm like, I have to rewrite those sections of the outline cuz like this is the real story, right? And it's not like wildly off base, but it's different enough that I'm like, "Yeah, I definitely like I I can't work with that old outline anymore. I have to restructure it." And that's fine. Like >> at this point, I half expect that to happen. So that doesn't freak me out. I love that part. That's how I know like ah now we're getting into the real stuff. Like we're getting we've we've gotten past the the obvious and now we're we're digging into the hidden gems. I love that part. >> What is the most difficult part of writing a book or a a memoir? Because you mentioned the word memoir. Actually, there's two questions. You know, I think a lot of people talk about books and they think of an autobiography, >> but as we were chatting about earlier, there's there's there's there's autobiographies and then there's there's memoirs, right? So, actually, let me just start with that. Like, could you could you elaborate on that, please? >> Yeah. So, that's a really important distinction because a biography autobiography is typically meant to be the the definitive account, right? This is something like um if if you know the author Walter Isacson like he he did a bunch of famous people. Elon Musk is probably the one he's most famous for. But he's known for doing biographies, capital B, right? Where it's like an exhaustive I mean he's he's interviewing multiple people from that person's life. He's digging into all these different sources about their early childhood up through who they are now. And it's meant to be essentially kind of a historical document like a like a biography is really meant to to encapsulate someone's entire life. Now a memoir is very different. A memoir is >> based around a specific topic and and really it's kind of up to you in terms of like do you want if you want to do like a certain topic or even like a certain period of time like you can write a memoir about a single year of your life. It was a really eventful year, right? Um, and so you get to decide with memoir, okay, I want to zero in on these things. And a memoir is is not expected to be objective in the same way that a a biography is. Like a biography is meant to to sort of like be in third person view. Even if it's an autobiography, like we we're we're kind of expecting you to to give us everything. With a memoir, it's like I am I am telling this particular story right here, and this is why. And so I find like, you know, and I have people ask me the same question, so I'm glad you brought it up. Like they'll ask you like, "Oh, do I need to tell my whole life story?" I'm like, "No, you don't. Actually, I'd prefer if you didn't because for what you're trying to accomplish in your business right now or with your brand, we don't need your entire life story. We need this this part right here." Right? So that's part of what I help people navigate is you tell me like what you want the book to accomplish. And even that, I can help you like figure out like what your options are. But once we've settled on that, then it's a matter of, okay, so what chapters of your life best support that goal and those are the chapters we're going to write. And that's it. We don't have to get your whole life story in there because it's a memoir. >> I think most if if not all personal brand should have a book. That's my personal belief because it's just such an easy it's such it's not even the right word to say easy. It's just a very I mean, what isn't the word? um authority author, you know, it's, you know, if you want to have authority and you want to be an industry leader, especially a thought leader as a personal brand >> and you want to have a I would say like a book is the best way to train somebody on a voice. Imagine if all my clients just had a book. I could just start with reading their book and it's written in voice. It has all their their stories. You know how easy it would be to do organic marketing and to do email marketing and to do so many different things? In fact, I think you could probably even, you know, if if you're a business owner um listening to this and you're you're, you know, you're a you're an industry leader or you're a thought leader or you want to become a thought leader and you're struggling to create content, just just run some numbers with me. You know, it's like you can go and spend a lot of money on an organic team to go and script YouTube videos, to go and script posts and emails and all that stuff. You're you're looking at spending a lot of money every single year. It's a significant portion of money. If you pay for a book, you invest in a book with a like a book a ghostriter, you're going to get like 50% of all that output with that book that that's going to help you with the content anyway. So, there's no additional expense in my experience. It's like there's no additional expense to do that. Look at and look at what happened with Dan Martell. You know, I was working with him while he was writing that book. >> I remember like I wasn't actually involved in the book, just just, you know, heads up. I mean, I checked the first chapter when he wrote it and I was like, I like where you're going with this. This is cool. You know, he did share it with me um and I was like, "Oh, you know, back then he was calling it um the buyback principle and then he named it buyback your time." >> But um you know, like I I remember before that book and after that book and I wasn't really working with him after he published the book, but look at the difference. I remember beforehand and now how he has just exploded. Everybody knows Dan Martell. When I was working with Dan Martell, only the the top guys knew Dan Martell, you know, the top 1% of business owners, they knew Dan Martell. But now people people in the main in the mainstream market that that are not in entrepreneurship, they they know Dan, oh wow, Dan Martell, you know. So that book really took him to the next level. And I can just imagine today if you're if you're a copyriter writing, you know, for Dan, he must just say, "Yeah, read my book first of all." And once you read my book, it'll it would have been probably so much easier to write all of his copy if id had that resource. So yeah, anyway, um I'm a big believer in books. I think it makes a lot of sense. And to your point earlier, right, like AI is AI is watering down the quality of online content to the point that having a physical copy of something, especially a book, is a very is a very powerful differentiator and a very powerful way to say, hey, like, you know, there's actually something of value and substance here. This is not just some prompted fluff, you know. >> Yeah, exactly. And I think it's funny. I I I'm going to I'm going to workshop this live. I've I've I've been cooking it up up here, but I've never actually like spoken it aloud. So, let me let me walk you through my pyramid theory of how authorship works. So, because this is one of the biggest things I have to kind of disentangle when I'm first talking to a potential client is that a lot of times people want to start with a book that's like super tactical, right? Like, ah, like no fluff. We're just getting right into the beat of it. Like, we're just going to, you know, I'm going to tell you what to do. And the problem with that is it ignores the reality of what people are looking for in a book and what allows a book to go like like you were just saying to Dan Martell it's a perfect example go from being that like no known among experts right like known to to the to the precious few to being widely known and so when we look at what like the power of authorship like why why would anyone with a personal brand want to be an author in the first Well, if you think of your industry as this massive pyramid and at the very top you've got the people that you know have the most money and the most influence and already are, you know, the the big movers and shakers in that industry. In a sense, you you might already have a lot of those people in your network anyway, like like with Dan Martell. And in some in some ways, you can kind of just get to them directly by like, you know, joining masterminds or, you know, being at the right networking events or whatever. But even still, there's like there's like the there's like the the.1% that what they really want to see is influence. It's like simply having made a lot of money is not that interesting to them. >> Having a following is more interesting, but it depends on what kind of following, right? Like how how much influence do you actually have over that following? >> So that following comes from the rest of the pyramid. And at each layer, you're you're basically going wider in terms of sophistication. So these are each tier is a little bit less sophisticated as you go down and also they're a little bit less uh active in that industry, right? Like if we're talking purely about like you know business for instance like we're we're moving downwards from you know like the the like nine figure and up business owners. Now I'm like down to like you know mid7 figures at seven figures high six figures six figures and so on. And at the very bottom of the pyramid, the wide the base, the the widest point is the dreamers. These are the people that want to get into that space and are still kind of playing with the fantasy of being in that space and eventually might take the first step, but a lot of them, they're going to spend a good amount of time just in fantasy, right? Dreaming the dream. Those people are the people you want buying your book because there's a ton of them. Like that's that's the foundation of the pyramid. That's what holds everything else up is you have all these people, you know, hoping and dreaming and those are the ones that will become your the the evangelists for the book. They'll they'll run around and tell like, "Oh my god, like everyone needs to go buy this book." And of course, you also get, if you structure the book correctly, you're going to get everyone at the at the tiers above that. You also get the top one, right? >> Cuz what? Because remember, they're looking for influence. And what they're looking for is who can sway the base of the pyramid. If you can sway the base of the pyramid, you can sway the entire pyramid. They understand that. And so that's what they're looking for in terms of influence. Like if you can get the whole industry talking about you at once. Great example of this by the way, Alex Rousei. However you feel about the guy, he understands exactly what I'm talking about. and he's been very strategic about making that happen. >> Then that opens all kinds of doors for you. That opens the doors that you you kind of can't open any other way. And to do that, you need to write a book. If and this is where the problem with writing that like really like crunchy tactical book comes in. If that's the book you you you launch with, especially if you're if we're talking about your first book, it's one thing if you you you can get to the book later if you want. In fact, there's there's a lot of good reasons to do that. But if you open with that, now you're starting like halfway up the pyramid. And so you only have like this level of sway. And it's really hard to work your way down from the middle, right? It's hard to like translate that message into something that the the base can understand. Which is why I say you need to lead with a memoir that shows your hero's journey in terms of like when you were a clueless, terrified newbie. What did that look like? Right? Or at the very least, you need to be able to speak to that audience, which is the base, so that they have something to latch on to and they have a reason to pick up this book and read it. even though they might think that they're ready to start climbing the pyramid in earnest, a lot of them aren't, but they can still start reading your book and talking about it and recommending it to all their friends >> even before they get to that step. Uh, and also and it's funny too because there's also the I I would say like kind of a few a few layers above that like a lot of the the the the lower not the lowest but lower levels there's a lot of people there who are going through a monster reading phase like I I I' I've talked to so many different entrepreneurs who are are you know much higher on the py pyramid now but during that climb they had a period where they were reading like a 100red books a year or more 200 in some cases. And so by by writing the book in this way, you're also grabbing those people. And my goal when I'm working with a client is to give them a book that for one is going to hook the people in that like crazy reading frenzy phase. But I actually don't care about giving them the exact tactics, per se. I want to make sure that of the 200 books they read that year, ours is the one they remember. Yeah. So that as they keep climbing up the pyramid, they have your name on their lips the entire time. >> Yes. Cuz as they go, they're going to refer to other people in that same circle. And ah this is very smart. I love this model. That's very interesting. >> Yeah. So that's that's also a good reason for somebody that's in the top, let's say 0.1% to get access to that top 0.01%. that's going to be much more interested not based on money, not based on flexing, not based on the Lambo or the Ferrari or the whatever they're doing. It's going to be like what is what what are you actually doing in the world? What what are you doing for the world? What are you doing for people? What kind of impact or what kind of following what do those people say about you? Like what what's the quality of that? >> Who moves the industry? Right? Like I'm at the top of the pyramid and I want the industry to move a certain way. Do I want to do that manually? Do I want to spend a ton of my own money and resources to do that or do I want to find someone who already can and partner with them? >> Let me let me throw you some uh some like concerns/objections about this because I'm very curious to know what you think of um these ideas. So the first one would be okay if I write a book that is very very broad in that sense. It's not this tactical book. It's it's to it's to speak to the dreamers. How do we cater to let's say being an industry leader if it's a if it's more of a sort of like story, you know? Yeah. How do you demonstrate that you're a leader by telling a story and not end up being another bisop guru for example if it's a business book, right? >> Very good question. So the the goal, again, this is where if you're thinking in terms of tactics, because I think that's that's the trap I see a lot of people fall into as well, where it's like I I'm I'm speaking very narrowly to newbies and I'm giving them like like baby's first tactics, like yeah, that's not going to be interesting to anyone further up the pyramid. And that's why the goal is effectively to to to paint the story of what what what their time and interest is going to look like long term based on your own journey, right? Like this is like the the hero's journey which people can can project a lot of things onto that idea. It's very simple. It's it's it's showing someone these are the challenges I overcame in this domain of life and now I'm turning around to show you not not to teach you by preaching but to show you by example the all the challenges I went through at every step of the journey and how I overcame them. So that >> for one thing that's going to tackle the stuff that you're dealing with today because I'm because I'm showing you the the beginning parts of the journey, but also it allows you to imagine the full journey and it it starts to feel real, right? Like, oh wow, I actually can go through this whole process because I'm watching this person go through the whole process. And then when it comes to other thought leaders in the space that you want to have influence with, they'll be able to meet you in those those middle chapters, right? Like, oh yeah, man. And like either I'm I'm going through that right now or I just went through that. And it's cool to see someone else finally talking about it because again most people don't do this. They the the one of the core aspects of this is that this reveals like there's nothing better than the hero's journey to reveal someone's core values. Like the thing that will emerge through this process is that there are certain things about you as a person that have held true from the very beginning. And those qualities are the things that really make you attractive as a leader. Far they're they're far far more important than your accomplishments. Accomplishments come and go, right? Accomplishments can be fate in a lot of cases, but when they can see, >> especially in our industry. >> Yeah. Right. >> Yeah. >> But when you see the whole story, it's like, wow, this is this is actually a person that I would want to follow. This is a person I would follow into an unknown situation because I can see that they have the character to to because they they they pitch themselves into the unknown, right? They they themselves took these all these courageous steps when it wasn't obvious that they were going to become the person they are now. That's another huge part about this. One of the things that is so so important with this kind of book is that you know typically by the point that you're writing a book like this, you already have a lot of people that put you on a pedestal because again because of your prior accomplishments, because of whatever and there's there's a power in that in the sense that they will look to you for for advice, right? Like, oh, this person is the expert on whatever topic. Let me go see what they have to say about this. But there's this this friction that comes with it where it's like, well, yeah, their advice sounds great, but could it really work for little old me? Could it really work for me? Because they seemingly they just fell from the heavens as this this this god among mortals with all this incredible knowledge, right? >> But when you show them that story and and frankly when you're vulnerable with it and actually can show the the messy middle and the the rough beginning, that's when they understand like, "Oh, no, actually wait. I can follow in their footsteps. They're not untouchable. They're actually someone I can I can follow and and maybe even meet someday. And that's ultimately far that that will get people to change in a way that always keeping yourself on the p pedestal. I mean, I I could name so many gurus that I won't that if you actually look at their following, it's nothing but dreamers because that guru never actually created the the the belief ladder that they need to go through those awkward middle stages that are so necessary. Like if if the guru has never modeled for them what it looks like to navigate those challenges, >> then yeah, I mean some of them might just by the force of their own character, but ultimately like that's just a roll of the dice, right? And and why would the p why would someone continue to take you seriously if they had to solve all those challenges for themselves while you're sitting around being the classic guru, right? Like you know, can do no wrong. It's like, well, I already know that that's not true because now I'm starting to navigate that middle myself. >> I can think, honestly, I can think of people I've stopped following for that exact reason. >> Same. Yeah, I can think of quite a few people. There's no depth. It's just it's just the, you know, it's just that that surface level. Oh, yeah. You know, like I was struggling and in my mom's basement and then I got myself into a billion dollars of debt and then I met this one guy and he changed everything. And it's like, yeah, that's not the story, man. The story is not like that. What is all the parts in the middle? What are all the investments that you were terrified of making? What are all the risks that you took? >> Who are the people that I don't know either backstabbed you in business or or um you know left the project when you needed the most or whatever, you know, whatever that story is. You know, you need those pieces. I love those so much. Okay. Um okay, let me see if I even have any other questions. that that covers it mostly, I think, cuz that's always been the concern with me is I always think when you go when you go broad like that, from the way I've seen many people do it, it's just a bunch of dreamers. And for somebody that's that's actually a thought leader in the space, you know, kind of like a Dan Martell, that's not that's not all that they want. They they want to help people on the journey and they don't want to just sort of sell this fluff, right? So that's that's really good. Okay. >> Huh. I think that's really it. Actually, I don't really have any questions on that. I would I I guess I would just go back to one thing that I I was going to ask you earlier. Maybe a few people like been patiently waiting for this. If we if we take this to to voice again, >> we go back to the voice the voice stuff. >> You said that there's there's a series of you know, you have like a three-page >> um you you know three pa page document where you where you break down voice. You also have what you mentioned like a belief ladder. What are some of these components? >> What what are some of the the pieces that you collect about a certain person to like get that those values? >> Um those stories for the book, the voice, the belief letter. What are some of these um elements that you collect in your discovery process that business owners need to sit with you and give you or like share resources? And like >> what what stuff do you really need there? cuz I'm sure a lot of people listening to this, even if you're not going to be writing a book for your client, if you went the extra mile to do this, especially if you have a really good client, this is not just a book thing. This is going to this is going to transform the way that you write any copy for him, including sales letters. You know, it would be you'd be surprised to see how how high the conversion goes if you inject voice into a sales letter. It's way way different. So, yeah. Anyway, um yeah, what are those elements? >> So, I think one of the essential things I've I've mentioned a few times already, but I'll give a more specific resource is the hero's journey. So, um, don't don't go read A Hero with a thousand faces. It is incredibly dense and very confusing and it's major overkill for most people. What I recommend instead is actually you look up Dan Harmon's story circle. So, Dan Harmon was a guy who created Community uh Rick and Morty. Um, there's a couple other pretty well-known ones, but those are the the main two for me. and he he trains his like his his writer rooms have always drilled on the story circle which is itself of just a simplified version of the hero's journey the way Campbell taught it but his version it's it's it's very simple it's very clean it's basically an eight-step process of how somebody starts in a com in their comfort zone is forced to leave that com comfort zone for one reason or another they go through this process of change and then by the end of the story, they've they've come back better and wiser. And when you take the time to really drill into each of those those spots in the journey and and why they're important, because this is one of the things I I I obsess over and like is is I mean it's it's foundational to how I how I do my work is I realize at a certain point that the reason why that that pattern is so resonant across human culture is that it is exactly how we encounter change in our own lives. Like if you think of any like real significant change that you've gone through and you're really honest with yourself, you can fit it pretty cleanly into that process. Like it's almost unheard of for someone to like go and make a major change just out of the blue just because, right? like no there's some kind of problem that forced you >> to confront that >> and uh and then you know it's the process of kind of you know you go through the stage of sort of negotiating with it and like oh let me let me try these these these easy solutions then none of those work and then the problem continues to get worse and worse until finally there's like the the midpoint right like the moment of ultimate crisis where you have to sacrifice something and you have to give and and a sacrifice is the loss of something meaningful like you have to give away something that you don't want to give away in order to get to the wisdom on the other side of the thing. And one of the the the like that that process right there is the definition of a dilemma. A dilemma is not simply having to make a difficult choice. A dilemma is I can't but I must. It's when you're forced to choose between two things >> that you value. And both those values, at least in that moment, are real. Yeah, that's good. I didn't actually think of it that way before. Huh. >> And whichever way you choose, that reveals your true character. >> Ah, okay. That's that's a that's a good aha moment for me. I think we're going to have to have an encore. What do you think? >> Happy to. >> I think this is I think this is deep. I think I think we're going to have a whole We're going to have a whole um you know, story storytelling masterass and how to integrate this with all of the work. Damn, I have so many more questions, but I'm also mindful of I'm also mindful of time, man. If people want to if people want to follow your work because you've been publishing a lot of stuff on on social. I I've seen a lot of your your content. You've been, you know, talking about a lot of things, which part of why I was so excited to to interview you. Where can where can people learn more about what you're up to? >> Um, easiest way right now is just to connect with me on Facebook or LinkedIn. Um, I have some other big announcements that like we're like months away from me being able to talk about them. So that's where I'll be talking about them once I can. They're just uh still in the oven right now, but uh but yeah, >> and then there'll be there'll be more options to to connect with me after that. But >> we'll start there. >> Okay, good. I'll uh I'll I'll link it in the description. Sean, it's been a it's been an absolute pleasure. I learned a lot from you. Thank you. >> Yeah, thanks, man. Likewise. >> We'll chat soon. And and put questions in the comments for what you want me to ask Sean next time cuz I have a feeling we'll we'll be back. We'll be back soon. >> Yep. >> Okay. Take care. Thank you.