Over the last 4 years, I've made over 10,000 static ads. And statics can and do perform at the top of the funnel when they're done correctly. But in the world of AI, so many brands are still getting their static ads strategy wrong. So today I'm going to be sharing with you everything that I've learned about static ads over the last few years, and showing you what to do and what not to do when you make this ad type. So let's get into it. And just to prove to you that I at least somewhat know what I'm talking about, uh here are some static ads that we've made at the top of funnel that have gone on to spend hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of dollars uh for the brands we work with over the last few years. It's a common belief that only bottom of funnel statics work inside of ad accounts, but when you do top of funnel statics correctly, they can and do work, and that's what I'm going to be showing you today. So, we are going to split into three parts. We're going to first cover strategy and systems, and then we're going to go into messaging principles, and then design principles. All the things you need to know to make great static ads. So let's start with strategy and systems. Now, let's talk about some of the top static formats that we've seen in our ad accounts. There's nothing revolutionary about these, and I think a lot of times, uh when it comes to static ads, a lot of brands try and reinvent the wheel. You do not have to reinvent the wheel. There are a handful of ad formats that work again and again and again. And obviously, messaging is more important than format. I'm going to go into messaging in a moment, but don't think about, you know, trying to be too cute or too clever with your ad formats. Just use the ones that are proven, and then focus on finding the right message for them. So, >> [clears throat] >> headline and benefits. Very clear headline. The headline is the ad. You've got the products, and then you've got the benefits around it. Testimonials. These are one of my favorite formats to run, especially if you've got a lot of reviews or a lot of ad comments, if you're a, you know, not a a new uh startup. Um you will have a lot of golden nugget testimonials in here, and you can just literally put them straight onto on the ad on the ad. A lot of people here try to paraphrase customers or like move certain things around. You don't have to do that. In fact, many times that we have taken the exact words or phrase that a customer has used and put it straight into an ad. Even if it didn't feel like quite right, or if it didn't make sense grammatically or whatever, it's going to work because it is an actual customer saying that. It is a customer talking to a customer rather than a business talking to a customer. So, I'm a massive fan of testimonial ads. And obviously, offer-based ads. I don't want you guys to get the impression that I'm I'm just saying only do top of funnel ads. You want all of them. You want the top of funnel ads and you want the bottom funnel statistics because all of them working together uh will hit different people who are at different parts of the funnel. So, we absolutely are still doing top of funnel sorry, bottom funnel ads as well. Also here, we have persona-based ads, which I'm going to talk about more shortly. Collection ads, if you have multiple SKUs, these absolutely crush scooping up demand at the bottom of funnel. So, I would highly recommend doing these. Comparison ads, whether that be a before and afters, us versus them, kind of timeline ads, anything where you're comparing a before state to an after state and showing that ideally visually, they are always going to be a tried and true format. And then some slightly uglier ones that we have here, publication ads, press hits, native ads. All of these formats can pretty much work regardless of what your brand is, what you're selling because again, they are they are tried and tested ad formats. And then and by the way, I've actually I've put these in an order in which I would prioritize them. Like these on the first two or three pages, I'd say the ones that we use the most. Then you have a policy ads, which I'm not the biggest fan of, but they do tend to find themselves at the top of a lot of ad accounts that I come across. So, yeah, and they're a bit gimmicky, but they seem to be working. And then posted notes, also massive fan of them and meme ads as well. I'd say across those 12, that's probably like 95 to 98% of the statistics that we make. You don't have to complicate things. You don't have to go outside of, you know, these 12 formats and and this is definitely, you know, what the ones that I generate in in Claude code cover for the vast majority of time. Now, the really cool thing that you can do is if you go inside of Parker, which is the tool that I have created and spoke about on this channel before, is you can actually go and find more ads like this inside of the discovery tab. You can just go and you know, if you want to go and find some uh posted note ads, you can come inside of here and filter to posted note and it is going to go and find you all of the posted note ads. I mean, I should have also filtered to static if I wanted to uh load uh just um the static posted notes as well as instead of the video ones. Um and you can see all the posted note ads. And the cool thing here is that this is sorted by impressions. So, we take the uh impressions rank on Facebook ad library every single day for every single brand in the entire database. No other tool does this to my knowledge. And you can see basically a library of ads that are performing for this specific tag. So, as you can see here, these are all ranked number one in the brands uh ad library. You can see it was ranked number one you know, on the 22nd, it's still ranked number one today on the 24th of uh July. I can just basically scroll through an a library here from every brand in the database of winning ads for whatever I query. You can query language, you can query industry, type of ad, uh ad format, emotion, desire, uh awareness level, um you know, how long it's been running for, uh the length of the ad, all sorts of things on here. You can query to exactly what you want and um and add to your swipe file, save it down into your swipe file here. You can also do this inside of Claude code. So, funnily enough, as I was preparing for this video, I wanted to rebuild my static swipe file so I could, you know, find any new inspiration. And I just said, "I'm creating a YouTube video on static ads, go through these brands and find me some of the top ads by impressions and prepare me a swipe file myself." And they went and did that inside of Claude code. This is all done through the Parker MCP, which I will put a link in the top corner if you want to go and install it. This is all done through the Park RMP, of course, and it created me this white file uh of top ads. All of these are top ads by impressions statics. And I can see the Facebook ad library I can see the Parker link. And then I just said, "Can you go and save this to my Parker swipe file?" And it went and built me this swipe file. So, now if you want to see if you want access to every uh ad that I've mentioned in this video, every ad in this deck, just literally I'm going to put the link in the description, Claude code, and the Park RMP built me the swipe file inside of Parker. So, I literally just said, "Here are the brands that I want to find uh inspiration from, and um here's what exactly what I want. Go and build this swipe file for me." And it went and did it. And I I barely had to do any work. Now I have a swipe file of of a bunch of top ads uh for all the different formats that I care about. And again, that's what I want you guys to do. Take the transcript, go and put it through, and say, "Go and go and build this for me." Uh which I thought, you know, that was a very very cool and uh a use of Claude code and the Park RMP. I want to talk about persona-based advertising a little bit more. Uh if you follow this channel, you'll know that over the last few months I've been talking a lot about the idea of making ads that speak to one specific persona. You know, traditional advice was to make ads that are broadly relevant to as many people as as possible, so you can have the biggest addressable market. Uh and yeah, that is still the case to an extent, but also thinking about like in a feed that is hyper relevant to every single person, how can you zero in on one person, speak to one person, and make a whole uh funnel for that person. And one of the best people doing this is Alex Hormozi, who talks about it a lot. And if you go to his ad library, you'll see a lot of ads like this. If you're a window installation company doing this, if you are a real estate brokerage doing a million a year, if you're a property management company doing a million a year, this is the most um extreme version of this concept. It can be something a little bit uh less direct. It could be how you should like what you show visually. If you show someone in a a real estate brokerage, then that's going to appeal to people who own real estate brokerages. So, you want to think about how you can speak specifically to certain personas and not worry about isolating other uh you know, other personas in your audience because you can also make ads for them as well. If you look at Grooons, they're a great example of this in the e-commerce space. They made an ad that I came across the other day in their ad library saying, "We're looking for girlies that feel puppy for no reason." They go on to explain the exact uh pain points that this person faces. Now, this is not going to apply as much to someone who uh is looking for a GLP-1 solution, which uh Grooons also has a lot of uh messaging around, but it speaks specifically to this girl. And then when when she clicks through, there is a landing page built specifically for her. Six reasons why Grooons is uh your gut's new bestie. So, the whole experience from before the click to purchase is made for that one specific person. If you look at Grooons landing pages, you'll see that they do a lot of this. There's a you know, weight loss, pre-menopause, menopause, male fertility, gut health, girly. Like, all of these are their own funnels that they've created. They'll have the ads in the front and then they'll have the landing pages and then uh they'll take them through to the product page. This is something I'm seeing a lot in ad accounts working. A lot of the bigger brands that are doing it. Now, I'm starting to see this uh you know, happen more often with the the slightly smaller brands. And I would highly recommend for you thinking about who your personas are and then creating experiences throughout the whole funnel speaking directly to that person. And if you want to see my in-depth persona creation and analysis process, then there's a link somewhere on the screen right now you can go and watch this video where I go into exactly that. And that is a nice segue onto part two, which is the messaging principles. One of the biggest mistakes that I still see brands making with their uh headlines on their uh, static ads is assuming that people will know or care about your brand. These prospects on the organic feed are scrolling through their feed 100 miles an hour. They're looking for every reason not to click or pay even pay attention to your ad. If you make headlines that assume that they know or care about your brand, excluding bottom of funnel ads, if you do bottom of funnel ads, you know, they're if they're offer based, that's fine. That's for people who know who you are. Most ads that you make or should be making should assume that people do not know who you are. It should be going to new eyeballs who have not heard of your brand. So, if you look at this ad from Mood, the first thing that I see in this ad is the big headline, "Love these." If I don't know or care about Mood, uh, like what what is there that is immediately relevant to me that tells me why I should buy or what this thing even is. Even with the first, uh, line here, "These are amazing. They do everything they claim." That doesn't mean anything to me as someone who's scrolling through their feed looking at memes or, you know, doing whatever you do on on Instagram and TikTok. So, I really want you guys to think about when you are making headlines for static specifically, is this relevant immediately to someone who does not know or care about my brand? Cuz I Well, at least with the ad libraries I'm looking at, there are a lot of brands who are still making ads that assume that people know or care about who they are. Obviously, outside of, um, outside of offer based ads. And when you do make that assumption correctly, you make what we call acquisition statics. Actual top of funnel statics that can go and convert someone who knows you and go and convert someone who doesn't know you. These are some examples. And by the way, this is not easy to do. It's one of the hardest things to do is to write a headline for someone who does not know or care and make it immediately relevant to someone who's never heard of you before. But this is where your research is really going to come in handy, looking through the ad comments, customer reviews, post purchase surveys, support tickets, Reddit, all that good stuff. This is where it comes into its own because the headline is the ad. And as you can see here, these are not crazy at all design-wise, they're actually very simple. The headline is clear, it's easy to read, and it stops you in your scroll. And uh yeah, these are good, solid static uh acquisition static examples. And the thing is, you don't have to always rely on writing the copy yourself. Sometimes you can reverse engineer what's working for other brands. Now, we can't see what is working in terms of inside their ad accounts, cuz we can't see other brands' ad accounts, but we can get a good proxy via the Facebook Ad Library sort by impressions feature. So, you can see what's working by impressions. If it's working by impressions, there's a pretty good chance there's a lot of spend behind it, and it's performing inside their ad account. Now, we have the Parker MCP installed on our Claude. So, what I did inside of Claude codes, I just said, "Look at my external brands' top static ads by impressions. Find the ones that make the most sense for us to recreate, then draft copy for us to recreate them." What I have done is on um Parker, and I kind of look at the web app as like the control room now. Uh I have just added all of my uh brands inside of here that want to follow. I've got my competitor brands, I've got my influencer brands. And by the way, if you haven't got Parker, you can you can do this through the Ad Library um API and pull it into Claude. Uh I just felt it was do some Parker's it's way easier, and it uh tags everything properly, um which I find very, very valuable. Uh so, I've got a bunch of brands that are not my competitors, but I just like to follow them anyway. Uh either they are you know, uh just random brands, or they're brands that uh share similar audiences with my uh clients' brands. Um so, I I I look at them, look at what's working for them by impressions, find uh copy inside of our voice of customer for our customer views, ad comments, which is also all connected inside of Parker, and I just go to recreate them. And actually, I showed in the in the Claude code video that I made the other day, if you want to go and watch that, I'll put the link in the corner, about this flow, where it literally delivers me these statics out of Slack. I had all of these statics delivered through copying statics from other brands and just making them for my brand with my copy and these are real quotes from customers. These are real customer reviews, these are real ad comments and the cool thing is because we we had the skill set up that we talked about at the start of the video, this uh looks for white space inside our ad account. So, we were not doing anything around senior dogs. So, it found a static to recreate. It made it about senior dogs and it wrote the copy from our customer reviews and that is a really nice workflow to get statics made that fill white space inside your ad account or look for opportunities and go and get these. And all of these are one-shotted inside of Claude code with the Hexfield MCP and the Parkfield MCP. I really like them. So, you could easily put something like this in. Again, you can use the uh Meta CLI and and Ad Library API if you want to. I just find it way easier to use Hexfield MCP and Parkfield MCP together because I'm having so much fun and like I said, if you watch that Claude code video, you'll get a lot more context on exactly what this looks like um in in practice. Um again, same same concept. All of this is actual customer copy. Your customers are your copywriters and so many times over the last few years, I can't tell you how many times we have had exact words and phrases given to us by customers, put in ad, whether it's a headline for a static, whether it's a hook for a video, whether it's just part of the script and it goes and does really well inside the ad account. You can see the exact review this one came from uh inside of this brand and here's the prompt I entered into Claude code. I just said, "Search my brand's customer reviews, ad comments, look for uh the most emotionally loaded phrases." And then I got it to go through the same um process. Look at my ad account, uh look at um what we haven't really tested and then come up with ideas for copy that we can go and then turn into statics. Again, if you want more context on that, watch the Claude code video that I did last week. Um cuz we went we went and then go and made a a bunch of static through this uh workflow, but yeah, couldn't vouch this enough. Especially if you've got a lot of customer reviews and ad comments, you will for sure have some golden nuggets like this that you can take and it's the exact words and phrases. It feels like a customer speaking to you on the customer. That's what uh kind of break through the noise in the feed where everyone else is making the same generic claims. That's how you appeal to someone. That's how you stand out um in a feed where everyone else is, you know, saying the exact same thing. Um one thing that I want you guys to think about is this kind of spectrum of clarity versus curiosity. Uh because in the previous video I said um that you want to be clear over clever and and I 100% stand by that. You want to be clear in your ads, but I also want to make the distinction that sometimes you want to leave curiosity. You should need to work out when do you want the sales happen. As you can see here on the left-hand side we have the traditional top of funnel static that we've been talking about in this video. Very clear, exactly what it is, who it is for, and like how it's relevant to them. On the right-hand side, we have the curiosity uh native ad where uh you know, the selling is done partially in the primary text, but more so in the advertorial page that you send to. So, you should need to work out like where you want the selling to be done. Is it on the ad mainly or is it on the Is it after the click? Uh just don't get stuck in the middle. Again, it's a a one thing that a lot of brands do. They they are somewhere in between clarity and curiosity and it results in you just being stuck in no man's land. So, just be conscious of that when you are uh making your ads. And finally, I want to talk about design principles. Now, you can have the best messaging in the world if it is designed in a hideous way that's not easy for your prospects to understand, then they're not going to see the message that, you know, you want them to see. People don't read ads from top to bottom. They scan. They look for uh the thing that's most appealing to them and they won't necessarily go in the order that you might think they are. And that's a good thing cuz we can use this to our advantage to uh guide them through the process of of this static ad. So, for example, what do you see here first? Most people would see these two lines here, "Faking it with my husband." And this has been intentionally designed like this. This is one of my favorite statics uh that I've seen O Positive do a very good job with their static ads. This is a good ad library that I would recommend swiping. They do a lot of this stuff like psychology-based designed where they make you uh they they kind of guide you through the process of of going through the static. You so so you see this hook first, and that is the thing that's going to grab your attention on this image. Then you see since which qualifies the prospect, and then you see the products, and then you see the social proof. So, if they you know designed this in a way, for example, where the the social proof is first, you go, "I don't care about this. I don't know what this brand is." But they've hooked you by putting the most attention-grabbing part in the biggest sizing in the uh in the ad, and then you go through and read the ad rather than continue scrolling. So, it's very smart design. It's something you want to think about cuz statics have hooks to it. It's not just videos. Statics have hooks, and and here the hook is "Faking it with my husband." So, you want to think about when you're creating statics from a design perspective, uh you can control the visual hierarchy with these three levers: sizing, contrast, and white space. And the thing that you want the to be the most important message, that's where the eye line should be landing first, like we have got on this uh example here. And in terms of actual elements that you can control, you have the placement and sizing of images, the placement and sizing of headlines, what you're actually saying in that headline, obviously, uh the use of fonts and colors, warps and distortions, highlights, and arrows. So, there are a lot of little things that might seem insignificant, but like can play a big part in making sure the prospect sees what they're supposed to see first cuz that is psychology-based design. Just little things as well. Um here's an example. Uh can make a big difference. The ad on the left, nerve pain killer, doesn't have any colors, and the text is a little bit weird like the killer is in front of the white light versus the ad on the right where it's on two lines, so it's easy to read. They've got the red background for the word killer. Red connotes in danger. So, that is way easier for me to consume and understand what is happening here than on the left-hand side. Tiny change, but a big difference in how the ad feels at least in that first impression that you have of it when you read it. And I'm just kind of making this guys so that you can take the transcript from this video and put it into Claude code and say make a visual out of this. You know, you can create some kind of design agent that looks at all of the points I've gone through here and just, you know, as a checklist and judges the outputs that you have inside of Claude code. If you want me to do more of a how-to in terms of the actual Claude code system, let me know in the comments below and I can obviously go and do that. One use case isn't necessarily a design principle, but like one, really practical use case I've had for AI over the last year and a half with image models is using it to create intentionally unrealistic visuals. So, we're trying to make the invisible feel visible here. All of these you can see, if we go back to the slide earlier that I was talking about, the customers being your copywriters, how can we show what people feel? Look at this one in the middle here. I love this ad. It's one of my favorite AI image ads. If you have nerve pain in your foot, and I imagine this has come from a customer review that says like, you know, it feels like I've got needles in my foot or something like that. If you have that feeling, you are going to stop for this static. So, think about ways that you can make the invisible visible. And again, you can literally, you know, take a screenshot of this page, put it into Claude code, and say, "How can we make the invisible visible for my brand?" Or what problems are people saying in our customer reviews, in ad comments, etc., that we can actually go and make a visuals for and then go and get to do that. And again, I am doing all of this through the Parker MCP. If you are unsure how to do that, all you have to do is go to customize and connectors and add a connector and then add the Parker MCP. Obviously, you need a Parker account. If you do not have one, then you can go and sign up for a free month trial in the description below. And another way that I use AI and image ads is to create what I call atypical text ads where you take text and put it in unusual places that are relevant to your prospect. So, for example, we've got another nerve pain ad on the left here writing on someone's foot. That just is something that you would stop scrolling for if you had foot pain and then you read the headline. It's a good headline, 12 years of nerve pain gone in minutes. Then it's got a picture of the product here which is blurred out. That kind of static I've seen work again and again. Especially if you're writing on the body for some reason, it just is it just does get people's attention when you write a message on someone's body. Same thing with the one on the right, no more fatigue, hot sweats, or weight gain writing on someone's stomach. So, this is another way that you can do this and again, take a screenshot of this, give it into Claude, and say, "How can I do this for my brand?" Or what other atypical text opportunities are there? It doesn't have to be right on the body. It can be whatever's relevant to your business. So, for example, we work with a and anti-dandruff brand. We did one where we had a picture of the bathroom mirror and we wrote a message in the condensation. So, you can literally do it anywhere. Anything that's relevant to your uh your audience that they would recognize right away, "Oh, okay, you know, this makes sense for a shampoo brand. This makes sense for a nerve pain brand. This makes sense for a um brand that helps you solve >> [snorts] >> hot sweats or weight gain. So, yeah, that's another way you can use AI in images. So, to recap, use Claude Coden Hickfield to scale volume. This is going to be the actual system that you use to generate all these ads. Test with intention. Make sure you're looking for white space inside your ad account, inside your voice of customer. Uh use proven formats. You don't need to reinvent the wheel. Speak directly to specific personas. Don't worry about isolating other personas cuz you can make ads for them as well. Assume no one knows or cares. That is the uh you know, static headlines 101. If you do one thing from this video, just make sure that your headlines assume no one knows or cares if it is a top of funnel static. Reverse engineer winning copy. You don't have to do it all on your own. You can go and you can go and find uh copy that's working for other brands. Your customer, your copywriters. Uh pick clarity or curiosity. Don't get stuck in the middle. Consider the visual hierarchy. Make the invisible visible. And write messages in creative ways with their typical text ads. And if you do all of that, then you will look like this. Happy dog. If you want a team of experts to implement this for you, uh we have uh slots open at AdCritique right now. We've been doing this for 4 years. We've made 30,000 ads over the last few years. Worked with almost 100 uh eight- and nine-figure brands. If you're spending at least 100k a month, we would love to help you scale your brand. Here are some of the results we've got on the screen here. And uh if you've enjoyed this video, give us a like. Give us a comment. Give us a subscribe. All that good stuff that you guys do. A lot more content coming on the channel. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.