Right, team. Welcome back to the channel. My name's Tom Youngs. channel. My name's Tom Youngs. This is the whiteboard of truth. And in This is the whiteboard of truth. And in today's video, I need you to forget today's video, I need you to forget everything that you think you know about everything that you think you know about closing high ticket. Because what we're closing high ticket. Because what we're talking about today are the one, two, talking about today are the one, two, three key sales assets that have allowed three key sales assets that have allowed me to do what I call the zero cool me to do what I call the zero cool close. Because in 2024, when I was close. Because in 2024, when I was making about 100 grand in the year, I making about 100 grand in the year, I was doing sales calls. And in fact, my was doing sales calls. And in fact, my calendar, in one week I had went and calendar, in one week I had went and counted them, had 17 calls in a single counted them, had 17 calls in a single week. And it had five on a Friday week. And it had five on a Friday afternoon. The cool thing is, I was afternoon. The cool thing is, I was like, "I'm done with this." It's October like, "I'm done with this." It's October 2024. I quit sales calls. And since 2024. I quit sales calls. And since then, I've now done 1.6 million in my then, I've now done 1.6 million in my consulting business without a single consulting business without a single call, zero sales calls, zero appointment call, zero sales calls, zero appointment setters, zero sales closes. And it setters, zero sales closes. And it typically takes me less than 30 minutes typically takes me less than 30 minutes per day to manage my entire pipeline. I per day to manage my entire pipeline. I think that's sick. So, if you stick think that's sick. So, if you stick around for this video, I'm going to talk around for this video, I'm going to talk to you about the one, two, three sales to you about the one, two, three sales assets that are going to help you get assets that are going to help you get there, too. If that's what you want. If there, too. If that's what you want. If that is what you want. Like I said, that is what you want. Like I said, welcome. My name's Tom, if you're new welcome. My name's Tom, if you're new here. I have a gift for you, as always, here. I have a gift for you, as always, to the newbs. to the newbs. There is a link down below that's going There is a link down below that's going to take you to a free mini course that to take you to a free mini course that is going to, over the next 7 days, send is going to, over the next 7 days, send you a single email to your inbox. I call you a single email to your inbox. I call it six to seven figures in 7 days. It's it six to seven figures in 7 days. It's going to be a 3-minute daily read. going to be a 3-minute daily read. Everything that I've done to go and Everything that I've done to go and navigate this journey over the last navigate this journey over the last couple of years, so you can do it, too. couple of years, so you can do it, too. Okay, let's crack a fresh bottle of Okay, let's crack a fresh bottle of South Downs natural mineral sparkling South Downs natural mineral sparkling water. Our sponsor for today, they don't know it, but it, but I send them a lot of business. Okay, I send them a lot of business. Okay, let's get into this. let's get into this. Right, so we're talking about three key Right, so we're talking about three key assets. One, the model. Two, the assets. One, the model. Two, the machine. Three, the invite. machine. Three, the invite. What does this all mean? This all starts What does this all mean? This all starts from a common mistake most online from a common mistake most online experts make. experts make. This is a pyramid called the levels of This is a pyramid called the levels of awareness. awareness. This is a sequence of awareness steps This is a sequence of awareness steps that a prospect needs to go through to that a prospect needs to go through to be able to go from not having a clue be able to go from not having a clue what you do to understanding exactly what you do to understanding exactly what you do and eventually what you do and eventually sending you the seven most lucrative sending you the seven most lucrative words in business, which is "Can you words in business, which is "Can you send me the payment link?" Can you send send me the payment link?" Can you send me the payment link? Boom, that's what me the payment link? Boom, that's what we want. Because on honestly most online we want. Because on honestly most online experts get hit with the seven most experts get hit with the seven most expensive words in online business or expensive words in online business or just in business in general, which is "I just in business in general, which is "I just need to think about it." And I just need to think about it." And I don't want that to be you. don't want that to be you. I want you to be able to close deals I want you to be able to close deals without all the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that everyone without all the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that everyone else has to go through. So, like I said, else has to go through. So, like I said, this is all about moving people through this is all about moving people through the levels of awareness. This is from a the levels of awareness. This is from a book by Eugene Schwartz called a book by Eugene Schwartz called a Breakthrough Advertising. Very expensive Breakthrough Advertising. Very expensive OG book, but one I would highly OG book, but one I would highly recommend reading. recommend reading. Uh so, how this works. Uh so, how this works. When someone is in your audience and When someone is in your audience and they follow you, but they they follow you, but they don't have a clue who you are, don't don't have a clue who you are, don't have a clue what you do, don't have a have a clue what you do, don't have a clue how you help people. In fact, they clue how you help people. In fact, they are even unaware that they even have a are even unaware that they even have a problem themselves. So, our job when we problem themselves. So, our job when we grow our social media audiences is to at grow our social media audiences is to at first tell people that they actually first tell people that they actually have a problem. And what that does is have a problem. And what that does is that moves people from being unaware that moves people from being unaware down to being problem aware. Now, our down to being problem aware. Now, our public content does that job. Videos public content does that job. Videos like this on YouTube, videos like my like this on YouTube, videos like my reels on Instagram. Shout out, I just reels on Instagram. Shout out, I just hit 100K on Instagram. Let's go. So, um that's pretty sick. Um so, um so, um that's what our content to our audience that's what our content to our audience is about. It's about getting people is about. It's about getting people right at the top of the levels of right at the top of the levels of awareness to actually be aware that they awareness to actually be aware that they have a problem. So, that's phase one. have a problem. So, that's phase one. But, we're not talking about phase one But, we're not talking about phase one today. I've made plenty of videos today. I've made plenty of videos talking about that phase. talking about that phase. You can just go binge the rest of my You can just go binge the rest of my channel, okay? If you don't believe me, channel, okay? If you don't believe me, but this is what we need to do next. but this is what we need to do next. The next stage of this is when someone The next stage of this is when someone knows that they have a problem. knows that they have a problem. So, so someone knows they have the So, so someone knows they have the problem. problem. Let me start this again. Let me start this again. Come on, Tom. You can do this. Come on, Tom. You can do this. It's not like it's your first time. It's not like it's your first time. We then need to take someone from being We then need to take someone from being problem aware to solution aware. problem aware to solution aware. We need to essentially shift a belief We need to essentially shift a belief that there is a better way of them to do that there is a better way of them to do things, okay? That's the second thing we things, okay? That's the second thing we need to do. The third thing we need to need to do. The third thing we need to do is we need to move them being from do is we need to move them being from solution aware. solution aware. Come on, Tom. You can do this. Come on, Tom. You can do this. We need to take them from being solution We need to take them from being solution aware to being product aware. That is aware to being product aware. That is they are aware they have a problem. They they are aware they have a problem. They are aware that there is a solution for are aware that there is a solution for them to help solve their problem. And them to help solve their problem. And then, they are finally aware that there then, they are finally aware that there is a product that exists in the is a product that exists in the marketplace, your product. marketplace, your product. Or a product. Potentially not just your Or a product. Potentially not just your product. product. Um could be someone else's product as Um could be someone else's product as well that helps them solve their well that helps them solve their solution. You need to take them to being solution. You need to take them to being product aware. And then finally, finally product aware. And then finally, finally once you've done all of those steps, you once you've done all of those steps, you need to take someone to the point in need to take someone to the point in which they are most aware. And when they which they are most aware. And when they are most aware, they are most aware that are most aware, they are most aware that you [snorts] you [snorts] have the solution for them. have the solution for them. Now, the problem is most online experts Now, the problem is most online experts most online experts make the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] most online experts make the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] mistake of trying to do this. Boom. mistake of trying to do this. Boom. They try and get people from being They try and get people from being unaware unaware to most aware in one step. And that's an to most aware in one step. And that's an issue. issue. Because Because why would someone who isn't even aware why would someone who isn't even aware that they have a problem be interested that they have a problem be interested in your product? in your product? Makes no sense. So, we are not going to Makes no sense. So, we are not going to be doing this, okay? be doing this, okay? Now, this fundamentally comes down to Now, this fundamentally comes down to this misunderstanding of the question this misunderstanding of the question that is going on in people's heads at that is going on in people's heads at each stage. each stage. Now, what most experts think is that Now, what most experts think is that when someone's watching their content, when someone's watching their content, they're thinking, "Hmm. they're thinking, "Hmm. I wonder how his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] works." I wonder how his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] works." But that's not what they're thinking. But that's not what they're thinking. What they are actually thinking, and What they are actually thinking, and which what is the answer that we have to which what is the answer that we have to help them solve, help them solve, or what at least we need to help them or what at least we need to help them solve this answer this question in their solve this answer this question in their head, head, it's this. it's this. Why is what I'm doing Why is what I'm doing not working? That's the question we need not working? That's the question we need to solve. to solve. Our like perfect future clients, Our like perfect future clients, the question that we need to solve Tom can't think today. Tom can't speak today, in fact. Come on. Let's pull this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] together, man. You've got this. is I wonder how his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] works. And that is not the question that's And that is not the question that's going on in their head. The question going on in their head. The question that's going on in their heads are why that's going on in their heads are why is what I'm doing not working? So, this is what I'm doing not working? So, this system that we're going to talk about system that we're going to talk about today, the three-step system that I've today, the three-step system that I've been refining and perfecting over the been refining and perfecting over the last two and a half years, or two years last two and a half years, or two years actually, actually, um um is based all around this. is based all around this. It starts over here with the first asset It starts over here with the first asset called the model, okay? So, um I've been called the model, okay? So, um I've been to a number of networking events over to a number of networking events over the last couple of years, and I've been the last couple of years, and I've been to two where one of the goats out there, to two where one of the goats out there, one of the modern goats, Sabri Suby, um one of the modern goats, Sabri Suby, um Australian geezer, uh he runs an agency Australian geezer, uh he runs an agency called King Kong. Um and called King Kong. Um and he has spent a lot of money on ads. And he has spent a lot of money on ads. And uh I've seen him twice, and both times uh I've seen him twice, and both times he's like, "The perfect length of this he's like, "The perfect length of this type of video is 27 minutes." So, this type of video is 27 minutes." So, this is typically what people will call a is typically what people will call a video sales letter, but most people get video sales letter, but most people get it wrong. Most experts get this wrong it wrong. Most experts get this wrong because what they are trying to do is because what they are trying to do is they're trying to go down at this end of they're trying to go down at this end of the spectrum when they need to be going the spectrum when they need to be going up, okay? up, okay? So, this video is all about taking So, this video is all about taking people from being problem aware to people from being problem aware to solution aware, okay? solution aware, okay? And this is the difference between And this is the difference between making a video which in the video you making a video which in the video you talk about the offer first, which is talk about the offer first, which is here's what you get, the modules, the here's what you get, the modules, the features, the coaching, the community, features, the coaching, the community, the time with you, the the one-on-one the time with you, the the one-on-one access, you know, all the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] access, you know, all the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that someone who's this high up, they that someone who's this high up, they don't care about. It's not what you need don't care about. It's not what you need to be talking to them about. What you to be talking to them about. What you need to be talking to them about need to be talking to them about is is "Here's why you've been playing the "Here's why you've been playing the wrong game." wrong game." This is what the whole point of this This is what the whole point of this video is there to do, okay? The whole video is there to do, okay? The whole point of this video is to tell them and point of this video is to tell them and shift their belief that they are shift their belief that they are currently playing a game that is wrong, currently playing a game that is wrong, and that you have a new game for them to and that you have a new game for them to play that is the correct way to do play that is the correct way to do things, and a better way for them to get things, and a better way for them to get the result they're actually looking for, the result they're actually looking for, okay? okay? So, the whole point of this video is So, the whole point of this video is that the model changes what they that the model changes what they believe, okay? So, I'll give you an believe, okay? So, I'll give you an example of this, right? If you're example of this, right? If you're If you're new here, um my big If you're new here, um my big overarching thesis for how I build overarching thesis for how I build seven-figure brands online for experts seven-figure brands online for experts is that I used to be a funnel analytics is that I used to be a funnel analytics consultant for really big enterprise consultant for really big enterprise brands. So, brands. So, uh uh fashion brands like Tommy Hilfiger, fashion brands like Tommy Hilfiger, Selfridges, Harrods, Superdry, Sweaty Selfridges, Harrods, Superdry, Sweaty Betty, uh banks like TSB, NatWest used Betty, uh banks like TSB, NatWest used to be my clients. So, I used to work on to be my clients. So, I used to work on um Virgin Atlantic, Virgin Holidays. um Virgin Atlantic, Virgin Holidays. Uh I used to be the the brands that I Uh I used to be the the brands that I used to look at their data. I used to used to look at their data. I used to look at their Google Analytics, their look at their Google Analytics, their user analytics. I used to literally look user analytics. I used to literally look underneath the hood of their businesses, underneath the hood of their businesses, see all their numbers. And I my job was see all their numbers. And I my job was to work with their teams to highlight to work with their teams to highlight where there were gaps in their funnels. where there were gaps in their funnels. Now, what I realized a few years ago was Now, what I realized a few years ago was that some of the biggest experts in the that some of the biggest experts in the world, the guys like world, the guys like the Gadzhievs, the Gadzhievs, the Abdallahs, the Cods, all of those the Abdallahs, the Cods, all of those guys, this is a few years ago. I was guys, this is a few years ago. I was like, "These guys aren't using funnels like, "These guys aren't using funnels like how I used to help big brands like how I used to help big brands make their funnels better." make their funnels better." It became obvious to me that they were It became obvious to me that they were doing something really different. doing something really different. And so, 3 years ago, I came up with this And so, 3 years ago, I came up with this new model of building an online expert new model of building an online expert brand, which I now call the one simple brand, which I now call the one simple flywheel. flywheel. Instead of people Instead of people like like basically driving traffic to a sales basically driving traffic to a sales page and just being like hoping that page and just being like hoping that they click the buy button, they click the buy button, instead, what we have is we've got a instead, what we have is we've got a series of four systems that we take series of four systems that we take someone from being a follower, so someone from being a follower, so someone who just follows you online, to someone who just follows you online, to becoming a lead, someone that you can becoming a lead, someone that you can contact. That's the first system. The contact. That's the first system. The second system, which most online experts second system, which most online experts are missing, is then an education are missing, is then an education system. And that takes people from being system. And that takes people from being someone who's a lead just to being an someone who's a lead just to being an actual paying customer. actual paying customer. Once they've become a customer, we then Once they've become a customer, we then have a system to turn them into being a have a system to turn them into being a high-paying client. And then the final high-paying client. And then the final system, arguably the most important system, arguably the most important system of the entire one simple flywheel system of the entire one simple flywheel model is you turn them into a case model is you turn them into a case study. You actually help them get the study. You actually help them get the result that you promise you can get result that you promise you can get them. them. And so And so this way of doing things this way of doing things as I've built over the last couple of as I've built over the last couple of years years builds a brand. Whereas funnels are builds a brand. Whereas funnels are essentially tactics that rely on they're essentially tactics that rely on they're like fashion trends. And so you can't like fashion trends. And so you can't rely on fashion trends because guess rely on fashion trends because guess what? what? They go out of trend. They go out of trend. It's not working. It's not working. But this is when you build a brand based But this is when you build a brand based on fundamentals, based on brand on fundamentals, based on brand fundamentals fundamentals it's evergreen. You don't have to worry it's evergreen. You don't have to worry about the fashion trends. So my model is about the fashion trends. So my model is all about helping people understand that all about helping people understand that there is the old way of doing things there is the old way of doing things back when ads were really dirt cheap, back when ads were really dirt cheap, you know, back in the ClickFunnels days, you know, back in the ClickFunnels days, back in the Jim Roach days. That was back in the Jim Roach days. That was when Alex Hormozi built Jim Roach, I'm when Alex Hormozi built Jim Roach, I'm sure you know who he is. sure you know who he is. Let's talk about the goat, Russell Let's talk about the goat, Russell Brunson, talking about the ClickFunnels Brunson, talking about the ClickFunnels days. days. Um when ads were really cheap, back in the arbitrage days of early Facebook ads, arbitrage days of early Facebook ads, you could buy leads for dirt cheap and you could buy leads for dirt cheap and you could afford to push a loads of you could afford to push a loads of people through funnels and just a you people through funnels and just a you could it was just cheap. But now when could it was just cheap. But now when there's more creators, there's more there's more creators, there's more brands than ever, there's more brands than ever, there's more businesses than ever, there is um a businesses than ever, there is um a noisier marketplace noisier marketplace you have to rely on a more evergreen you have to rely on a more evergreen model than just relying on the fashion model than just relying on the fashion trends. And I see this all the time with trends. And I see this all the time with online experts who, you know, they they online experts who, you know, they they make these videos all I burnt down my make these videos all I burnt down my coaching business. coaching business. You know. I burnt I literally saw You know. I burnt I literally saw another one today where another another another one today where another another guy's literally started his again cuz he guy's literally started his again cuz he burnt it out a bunch of months ago and burnt it out a bunch of months ago and he's like, "Yeah, well, um I tried he's like, "Yeah, well, um I tried something else and that also didn't go something else and that also didn't go honestly honestly uh uh it's because they're relying on fashion it's because they're relying on fashion trends, not building an actual brand. So trends, not building an actual brand. So um I want you to remember this. So this is a write-it-downer. a write-it-downer. You don't sell the offer, you sell the You don't sell the offer, you sell the shift. That is what this core asset is shift. That is what this core asset is all about. It's about selling the shift all about. It's about selling the shift only. Now, I have a framework for this only. Now, I have a framework for this called the 11 P's. This is what I work called the 11 P's. This is what I work with inside Scale 20, which is my with inside Scale 20, which is my consulting and advisory firm for consulting and advisory firm for six-figure experts to help them scale to six-figure experts to help them scale to seven figures. And over the past 3 seven figures. And over the past 3 years, years, these videos that I've made public on my these videos that I've made public on my YouTube channel. So, I have an other YouTube channel. So, I have an other another YouTube channel, by the way. I another YouTube channel, by the way. I would highly recommend going and would highly recommend going and subscribing to that. I post That's where subscribing to that. I post That's where we kind of break down all of our we kind of break down all of our our case studies that I help crush. Um our case studies that I help crush. Um those videos that I've used the 11 P's those videos that I've used the 11 P's framework for framework for have been not only my best-performing have been not only my best-performing videos publicly on my channel, videos publicly on my channel, they have consistently been some of the they have consistently been some of the best-performing videos in the entire best-performing videos in the entire online business market. Like, I [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you online business market. Like, I [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you not. Uh hundreds of thousands of views not. Uh hundreds of thousands of views publicly on my channel because I have publicly on my channel because I have created a framework that truly works for created a framework that truly works for this. And it's kind of the proof is this. And it's kind of the proof is really in the pudding there because really in the pudding there because by virtue of the fact that it is by virtue of the fact that it is shifting beliefs, it is getting more shifting beliefs, it is getting more views because it's something that people views because it's something that people can see. They know that they need to can see. They know that they need to stop using funnels. stop using funnels. And so, I've been using this model, this And so, I've been using this model, this framework, the 11 P's. I call it my one framework, the 11 P's. I call it my one simple video. And this is the the main simple video. And this is the the main asset that gets people to believe there asset that gets people to believe there is a new way of doing things, okay? Now, is a new way of doing things, okay? Now, if you want to see an example of that, if you want to see an example of that, I've got you, but you're going to have I've got you, but you're going to have to wait right till the end of the next to wait right till the end of the next video, okay? video, okay? Bloody hell, I really can't speak today. Bloody hell, I really can't speak today. You're going to have to wait till the You're going to have to wait till the end of this video, okay? Then we're end of this video, okay? Then we're going to I'm going to literally going to going to I'm going to literally going to be like, "Hey, go watch this video. You be like, "Hey, go watch this video. You will see an example of this." Right. will see an example of this." Right. Number two is the machine. Number two is the machine. This is a 30-minute to 1-hour This is a 30-minute to 1-hour unlisted video, okay? Now, don't go and unlisted video, okay? Now, don't go and do this yet, do this yet, but if you look down below, down in the but if you look down below, down in the description box, the first line in the description box, the first line in the description box is this video, okay? description box is this video, okay? Don't click it yet. I'll tell you when Don't click it yet. I'll tell you when to click it. Actually, you know what? to click it. Actually, you know what? Don't click it yet because wait till the Don't click it yet because wait till the end of this video. You need to watch the end of this video. You need to watch the model video first, then you watch this model video first, then you watch this video. If you don't watch in sequence, video. If you don't watch in sequence, it's not going to make sense for you, it's not going to make sense for you, okay? You're not going to see how this okay? You're not going to see how this whole system ties together. But, the whole system ties together. But, the point is this video is linked to the top point is this video is linked to the top of every single one of my description of every single one of my description boxes on all my YouTube videos, okay? boxes on all my YouTube videos, okay? But, it is unlisted. It's not publicly But, it is unlisted. It's not publicly available on my channel, okay? available on my channel, okay? The whole point of this video is to move The whole point of this video is to move people from being solution aware to people from being solution aware to product aware. You can see we're getting product aware. You can see we're getting further down here. So, the model was up further down here. So, the model was up here. The model was talking about how here. The model was talking about how you how the how you do things you how the how you do things differently to how the how the rest of differently to how the how the rest of the market does things. the market does things. The second video, the machine, is the The second video, the machine, is the actual actual nuts and bolts, or as you can actually nuts and bolts, or as you can actually you might not be able to see cuz of the you might not be able to see cuz of the light. I know my key light I've people light. I know my key light I've people send me messages occasionally. send me messages occasionally. I am in a small office in London in an I am in a small office in London in an apartment, okay? There is absolutely no apartment, okay? There is absolutely no other [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] place I can put this key other [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] place I can put this key light so that it illuminates both me and light so that it illuminates both me and to some extent the whiteboard, all to some extent the whiteboard, all right? So, you're going to have to just right? So, you're going to have to just promise me. You might be able to see promise me. You might be able to see this, but this, but I said the nuts and bolts, or I said the nuts and bolts, or another element of a machine, you might another element of a machine, you might say, is a cog. How do you like my little say, is a cog. How do you like my little illustration of a cog? illustration of a cog? Yeah? Pretty damn good, right? You might Yeah? Pretty damn good, right? You might not be able to see it, but there's a not be able to see it, but there's a really shitty illustration of a cog up really shitty illustration of a cog up there. Anyway, there. Anyway, that is the idea. We have the model that is the idea. We have the model that's talking about how this works, that's talking about how this works, um or sorry, why this works, and then um or sorry, why this works, and then the machine is talking about how it the machine is talking about how it works. Right. works. Right. Super super important idea here. Super super important idea here. High ticket High ticket is a considered is a considered purchase, okay? purchase, okay? High ticket is a considered purchase. High ticket is a considered purchase. Now, what that means is that the buying Now, what that means is that the buying journey from someone going from problem journey from someone going from problem aware to most aware aware to most aware is different than an impulse purchase. is different than an impulse purchase. Like, for example, Like, for example, I needed some new creatine the other I needed some new creatine the other day. So, I just went to Amazon, I typed day. So, I just went to Amazon, I typed in creatine, and I bought the top one in creatine, and I bought the top one that was there. I think it was even a that was there. I think it was even a sponsored post. I didn't think about it. sponsored post. I didn't think about it. I had bought it within 3 seconds, okay? I had bought it within 3 seconds, okay? Um Um you don't do that you don't do that with high ticket. When there's um with high ticket. When there's um multiple months involved, there's work multiple months involved, there's work that's going to get be involved, there's that's going to get be involved, there's all the stuff that goes along with all the stuff that goes along with selling like high ticket coaching and selling like high ticket coaching and consulting. It's a considered purchase. consulting. It's a considered purchase. So, So, imagine this. imagine this. Imagine you walk into a Rolex shop. Now, Imagine you walk into a Rolex shop. Now, I'm not a fan of Rolexes, not my I'm not a fan of Rolexes, not my favorite watch brand. favorite watch brand. I don't intend to ever have one, but I don't intend to ever have one, but you get the point. A Rolex, okay? you get the point. A Rolex, okay? You go into the Rolex shop. You go into the Rolex shop. You walk around. You walk around. You have a little look around. You're You have a little look around. You're like, "Ooh, I like that one. Yeah, like, "Ooh, I like that one. Yeah, that's a nice That's a nice That's a that's a nice That's a nice That's a nice watch." You want to actually put nice watch." You want to actually put some on your wrist. Okay? some on your wrist. Okay? What happens next? You go to the dude What happens next? You go to the dude and you say, "Hey, I like the look of and you say, "Hey, I like the look of this bad boy over here, okay? I think it this bad boy over here, okay? I think it would look sick on my wrist, but I need would look sick on my wrist, but I need to I need to validate that it would look to I need to validate that it would look sick on my wrist. sick on my wrist. I've got small wrists, okay? I've got small wrists, okay? I'm a thin-boned human. I'm a thin-boned human. And so, I need to make sure that this And so, I need to make sure that this Rolex doesn't overcrowd Rolex doesn't overcrowd my petite wrist structure, my petite wrist structure, okay? okay? So, So, what the dude does is he says, "Of what the dude does is he says, "Of course, sir. course, sir. Follow me Follow me into this into this private room private room where where we'll get that Rolex on on wrist." we'll get that Rolex on on wrist." So, you go through to this private So, you go through to this private inspection room inspection room and he sits you down. He asks, "Would and he sits you down. He asks, "Would you like a glass of water?" you like a glass of water?" Everything's nice and calm. Everything's nice and calm. Closes the door behind you. And then he Closes the door behind you. And then he brings a selection of three Rolexes out. brings a selection of three Rolexes out. Interestingly, Interestingly, the one he the one you asked for the one he the one you asked for and a couple of others that he thinks and a couple of others that he thinks might look good on your wrist, okay? might look good on your wrist, okay? And also, if you know anything about And also, if you know anything about Rolex, uh those are the ones he's Rolex, uh those are the ones he's actually going to sell you because you actually going to sell you because you won't be able to get the one that you won't be able to get the one that you want. want. Besides the point. Okay. Besides the point. Okay. You're in the private inspection room. You're in the private inspection room. You have a conversation, you try on all You have a conversation, you try on all the watches, and he says, "Hey, by the the watches, and he says, "Hey, by the way, way, I I can't give you this I I can't give you this watch this Rolex because there's a watch this Rolex because there's a waitlist for it. waitlist for it. But, these this one or this one But, these this one or this one absolutely, we can you can walk out absolutely, we can you can walk out today with this Rolex." today with this Rolex." And um And um this has been on your mind for a while. this has been on your mind for a while. You've been wanting to get a You've been wanting to get a a watch for a for a while. You wanted to a watch for a for a while. You wanted to treat yourself. And you knew walking treat yourself. And you knew walking into this shop what was going to happen. into this shop what was going to happen. You knew this was going to happen You knew this was going to happen because it was a considered purchase, because it was a considered purchase, okay? You'd been considering it for a okay? You'd been considering it for a while. while. You were aware that You were aware that there was a problem. You couldn't tell the time. You knew that there was solution out there, a that there was solution out there, a watch. You then knew there were watch. You then knew there were different products out there. There was different products out there. There was the Apple Watch. There was also the Apple Watch. There was also Omegas. There was Omegas. There was I don't know. Swatch. There's also I don't know. Swatch. There's also Rolexes. Rolexes. You're not quite at the Patek level yet. You're not quite at the Patek level yet. So, you know that, right? So, you know that, right? And so, you're then product aware. And And so, you're then product aware. And then finally, you're like, "You know then finally, you're like, "You know what? I really want the Rolex." So, what? I really want the Rolex." So, you're at this stage and you walk into you're at this stage and you walk into the shop. You know this is going to the shop. You know this is going to happen, okay? happen, okay? So, So, you've had an opportunity to inspect the you've had an opportunity to inspect the product. product. You've You've worn the product. You've You've You've worn the product. You've demoed it. You know exactly what you demoed it. You know exactly what you get. You know how much it costs. get. You know how much it costs. You know exactly You know today you can You know exactly You know today you can walk out with it. walk out with it. So, you've walked in So, you've walked in and and this is if you can imagine yourself as this is if you can imagine yourself as an online expert, what we're trying to an online expert, what we're trying to do here is we're trying to give a do here is we're trying to give a private inspection room, a video that is private inspection room, a video that is operating like that private inspection operating like that private inspection room, okay? room, okay? And And if you do this correctly, what happens if you do this correctly, what happens is you then also you sell the vehicle, is you then also you sell the vehicle, okay? And I need to change this here okay? And I need to change this here because this is wrong. This is the because this is wrong. This is the machine. So, the machine sells the vehicle. The model The model sells the shift, okay? sells the shift, okay? Now, the important thing is when you do Now, the important thing is when you do these videos, you have to these videos, you have to also make sure that you also make sure that you take people through the shift again at take people through the shift again at the start of this video in the machine. the start of this video in the machine. You need to remind people that there is You need to remind people that there is a better way of doing things. But then a better way of doing things. But then this is the opportunity for you to this is the opportunity for you to actually talk about, "Okay, there's this actually talk about, "Okay, there's this problem that you have. There's a problem that you have. There's a solution that you know would work for solution that you know would work for you. We also have a product that's going you. We also have a product that's going to help you then. It's the same for me." to help you then. It's the same for me." And like I said, if you click down at And like I said, if you click down at the bottom down there, if you are a the bottom down there, if you are a six-figure online expert six-figure online expert and you'd like to scale to your first or and you'd like to scale to your first or next 20k monthly goal all the way to next 20k monthly goal all the way to seven figures, which is what we do, seven figures, which is what we do, then you can click the link and you can then you can click the link and you can watch that video and see how I do it watch that video and see how I do it inside Scale 101 and how we do it very inside Scale 101 and how we do it very differently to other people out there, differently to other people out there, okay? okay? Um Um once you do this, once you do this, you then get the opportunity to invite you then get the opportunity to invite people. people. But here's the key thing. But here's the key thing. We are going to be inviting We are going to be inviting the right person. the right person. So, the beauty of this one-two-three So, the beauty of this one-two-three part sales asset structure part sales asset structure is that at every single point, you are is that at every single point, you are filtering out the wrong people. filtering out the wrong people. So, at every stage you get closer and So, at every stage you get closer and closer and closer to filtering in your closer and closer to filtering in your perfect future client, okay? So, what we perfect future client, okay? So, what we do here, imagine like, you know, it's do here, imagine like, you know, it's The Great Gatsby, right? You know, he's The Great Gatsby, right? You know, he's the dude, Leo. He's got that cheers gif. Everyone wants to be invited, okay? No one wants to be sold. No one wants to be one wants to be sold. No one wants to be convinced. Everyone wants to be invited, convinced. Everyone wants to be invited, okay? And so, what this is about is okay? And so, what this is about is simply having all of the details of how simply having all of the details of how your thing works on a simple page or a your thing works on a simple page or a document. Now, people in the market are document. Now, people in the market are talking about how oh, you can just use talking about how oh, you can just use it on a just sell it on a Google Doc. it on a just sell it on a Google Doc. That's all you need. You just need a That's all you need. You just need a simple doc to tell them in short. simple doc to tell them in short. Absolutely. Do your thing. Do your Absolutely. Do your thing. Do your thing. thing. All I'm saying is that it doesn't All I'm saying is that it doesn't [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] matter, okay? [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] matter, okay? At the end of the day, it's just you At the end of the day, it's just you need to send someone to a place where need to send someone to a place where the details of how the details of how it actually works working with you is it actually works working with you is all in one place. all in one place. So, for me, we have it in a simple So, for me, we have it in a simple document. Um but, for people to get it, document. Um but, for people to get it, they have to have gone through these they have to have gone through these stages to eventually get the call to stages to eventually get the call to action to get given the invite, which is action to get given the invite, which is to DM me 77 on Instagram. Now, when they to DM me 77 on Instagram. Now, when they DM me 77 on Instagram, it triggers uh a DM me 77 on Instagram, it triggers uh a specific inbound ManyChat automation, specific inbound ManyChat automation, which serves them which serves them this video and the invite and collects this video and the invite and collects their contact details so I know who they their contact details so I know who they are. So, it does three things in one go. are. So, it does three things in one go. So, the invite is all about doing these So, the invite is all about doing these three things. three things. It's about highlighting who it's not It's about highlighting who it's not for. So, really important, I for. So, really important, I out the gate, I'm like, this is who it's out the gate, I'm like, this is who it's not for. If this is you, not for. If this is you, if you're reading these lines and this if you're reading these lines and this is you, then this is not for you. For is you, then this is not for you. For example, I don't work with beginners example, I don't work with beginners right now, okay? I only work with people right now, okay? I only work with people who have traction, who have actually got who have traction, who have actually got an offer that the helps people get an an offer that the helps people get an amazing result. I don't work with people amazing result. I don't work with people with personal development offers, so with personal development offers, so fitness coaches, life coaches. I just fitness coaches, life coaches. I just I've never run one of those businesses. I've never run one of those businesses. So, I only help people who essentially So, I only help people who essentially are business coaches, business are business coaches, business consultants, people who help people make consultants, people who help people make more money, okay? And that's how I'm more money, okay? And that's how I'm able to specialize so deeply and help my able to specialize so deeply and help my members and clients get absolutely mega members and clients get absolutely mega results because I'm super specific. results because I'm super specific. There are so many coaches and and There are so many coaches and and consultants out there who are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] consultants out there who are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] like work with everyone. like work with everyone. And it's like you really think that you And it's like you really think that you can be a specialist in everything? can be a specialist in everything? Absolutely [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Like fundamentally Absolutely [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Like fundamentally this is just an aside. Like say for this is just an aside. Like say for example like a fitness coaching business example like a fitness coaching business fundamentally is about accountability fundamentally is about accountability and support. and support. Um and education and a training business Um and education and a training business or consulting business is about or consulting business is about education, mastery, and giving them a education, mastery, and giving them a clear roadmap, okay? Completely clear roadmap, okay? Completely different. different. So, how could I do that? Okay, anyway. So, how could I do that? Okay, anyway. Um if you do these three things, Um if you do these three things, the model sells the belief shift, the model sells the belief shift, the machine sells the vehicle, the machine sells the vehicle, and then the invite invites the right and then the invite invites the right person. person. And those are the three sales assets And those are the three sales assets that have allowed me to scale to 1.6 that have allowed me to scale to 1.6 million million over the past 20 months since dropping over the past 20 months since dropping sales calls completely. sales calls completely. And I think that's sick. And I think that's sick. Like I promised you halfway through this Like I promised you halfway through this video, if you would like to see video, if you would like to see an a banger example of the model, an a banger example of the model, then I'm going to get you to watch this then I'm going to get you to watch this video next, okay? video next, okay? That was sick. That was sick. And I'll see you in the next one.
