Over the last 2 years, I've literally produced thousands of Instagram videos for me and my clients that have generated us over 200 million views, hundreds of thousands of followers, and over seven figures in client revenue. For example, we took back their dogs from 150,000 followers to over 750,000 and helped them average a million views per video. That's higher than Hermosi. We also played a part in helping Diary CEO scale from 50,000 followers to 3 million. Their clips average over 600,000 views per video. And I personally went from 15,000 followers to over 100,000 followers in 2 weeks using a single content style that made me $70,000. After analyzing every single one of these videos, I found four formats that were driving almost all the success. Then I took a look at the top business creators on Instagram and saw the exact same thing. It's clear that some formats on Instagram are just wired for printing money. And once you know what they are, you can also build a personal brand with a serious unfair advantage. So in this video, I'm going to show you what these four formats are, why they work, and the one thing they all need if you want views to actually turn into sales. By the way, my name is Guy. I've helped some of the leading business creators across totally different niches on Instagram find the winning formats. So I'm very confident I can help you do the same. But first, you need to understand the difference between a winning format that converts and one that just goes viral. So many creators they think the format does the conversion work for them, and it doesn't. Formats gets you views, but it's the expertise that gets people to pay you. I learned this watching reaction videos from a creator called Adam Mains Fires. Sue, rocking chair, rapid-fire monotone, pauses health clips to drop quick blunt critiques. 50 million views in 2 weeks. The numbers are super legit. So we both run the exact same reaction format. He floods his videos with on-screen labels for whatever's trending that day, switch slop, [music] seed oils. But if you were to ask him how many sales calls his content has booked, the numbers won't look as impressive. So the biggest difference between my reaction videos and his reaction videos, even though it's the exact same content, matter of fact, I actually took a lot of inspiration off him. Biggest difference between the two is what he labels are poor nutritional practices, and it was meant more so for entertainment, and they're kind of funny. It's more almost like a joke. Versus my style of reaction videos, it's more so labeling the content jargon and concepts that creators use to go viral. And labeling these concepts do two things. Number one, it actually allows them to see my thought process as I'm doom scrolling on Instagram trying to figure out what makes a video actually tick. And number two, they actually learn something. They're exposed to these new concepts that they've never heard of before, and this allows them to start doing research on by themselves. Ultimately, once they learn what that concept is, apply it for their own videos, they're going to attach the positive feelings they have from the viral video to me because I was the one who introduced them to the concept in the first place. So, the reason my reaction videos converted to 150 sales calls and 67k in recurring new cash is because everything I post is followed by me showing my work. Why this hook is structured the way it is, why this transition matters, why this creator's pacing could be improved. The viewer is able to watch along and have enough information to take action after watching my videos, right? They either implement the strategies themselves or pay me to do it. So, as we go through these four formats, pay very close attention to that. And format number one is actually the one we just covered. Format one, reaction videos, why this format works. Psychologically, reaction videos take advantage of something the viewer is already doing. They're on Instagram to watch other people's videos. When you react to one of those videos, you're not interrupting their flow. You're a continuation of it. So, they don't have to switch gears at all to engage with you. There's another thing going on as well. The original video is what's keeping the viewer watching, not you. They came for that creator's content. You're sneaking in your expertise while their attention is on someone else, which means they can't actually scroll away mid-video without missing the thing that they came for. It's very sneaky. And a huge thing about the reaction videos, it's a parasocial relationship. When I'm labeling what's going on inside the videos, I come from the perspective of an advisor, not just a teacher who's trying to yell at you, tell you what to do. Most people when they're doing their talking heads, they're telling you what to do. It's like you you you you you. It's very direct, it's very aggressive. But for me, I'm sharing my expertise so it doesn't feel like the viewer is actually getting attacked. And if you actually notice, when I film my reaction videos, I don't face head-on. I actually face to the side. This allows me to, figuratively, sit on the same side of the table as you, not sit across the table from you. If you think about interviews, when I'm sitting across the table from you, I have authority. But when I'm here, it's more peer-to-peer and I'm like, "Hey, come here. I want to show you something. Let's learn together." And so, this video is a really good example with Jeff Nippard. If you see here, I'm sitting to side Sexual innuendo. and dead hang. Visual hook. >> is one of the best test Right. People are here for Jeff Nippard, they recognize his face, but I'm here just leeching off that attention. of grip strength. Sometimes I zoom out to the end of the sentence. But I'm still providing value as well, just from a different perspective. Every single time he says a line, I break down why it works. >> I just tested my You can see the comments literally right here. Well done breakdown. Made these videos are excellent. Just passed this into my clients to give you a follow. Keep them coming. So, not only are these videos helpful for the viewer, it's also something I can send to other people, making it a very shareable format. And Adam Mosseri, the CEO of Instagram, literally said sends are one of the most important metrics to look for when you want your videos to go viral. >> All the time it creates an open loop. >> I was super surprised at how long I lasted. [music] It creates anticipation for the end result. >> Average gym goer can do about 30 >> Even though I'm not necessarily providing direct value in telling people what to do, just by labeling this, >> [music] >> you're seeing an expert at work. It's kind of like how you're looking at Michael Jordan practicing basketball. That in itself will teach you something. Now, here's another successful way to do it, and it's done by one of our clients, Pack Leader Dogs. So, again, he averages a million views a video in about 8 minutes of recording time per video, which is absolutely insane. I just want to share how he's able to do reaction videos at a very successful level. But, he doesn't just say this is wrong. He pauses, points to the dog's body language, and explains what the owner is missing in order to train the dog more effectively. And this is the format that literally built his business. He's completely organic, does not run any ads right now. So, let me show you this real quick. So, if we look at this 27 million view video, let's take a look at what the winning FORMULA FOR THIS. >> [laughter] >> SO, YOU CAN SEE WE'RE LEVERAGING THE VIRALITY OF THE original video. And the reason why it was super viral from the first place was because it started with some sort of dog interaction {slash} conflict. And we determined that this was actually one of the types of uh videos that Steve should react to, because they just are inherently a REALLY GOOD HOOK. SO, HE DOES [snorts] ONE FULL WATCH, AND WHAT HE DOES afterwards leash 99.9% Here you go with small dogs causing drama. So, put your dogs on leash 99.9% of the public shouldn't have their dog on leash cuz they don't have total control of their dogs. Well, he always starts off his talking head with some sort of bold claim or statement after the reaction video to get your attention even more. And now you're interested to see why he actually made this claim in the first place. Then he spends the rest of the video right breaking down frame by frame slow motion on his iPad with with his pencil how that dog interaction happened in the first place and what you can do to prevent it. Maltese I think they are. Charging full speed. I want you to see something now. The dog And he's also really good at sharing rather than teaching. So, he uses a lot of these phrases like, "Hey, I want to show you this. Hey, take a look at this. I'm going to break down exactly why this" Like he doesn't actually try to like, "Hey, you should do this or do this." He actually just educates you by breaking it down. comes in charging rah rah rah and look the big dog did [ __ ] I mean the dogs did obviously start it but then she triggered the second part of this whole thing. Cuz she comes IN LIKE AH AND BY the time they watch the original video, they're already hooked into it because the original video first of all is super viral then number two, people just want to see the actual full breakdown. And frankly, part of this is just because Steve is just an amazing dog trainer. He knows his [ __ ] He can break these down. He can do this in his sleep, right? That's also a huge part of this. But if you look at the comments here, every single one of these comments is super engaged. Like you can see here this one has like 100,000 likes. This is literally like an essay His comment is probably one of the most engaged I've ever seen. And it's partially because he his videos are allowed to be long because he provides so much value in the reaction process and because the video is so viral on its own. Now, let's take another look at this 4 million view video right here. Same thing here. Starts off the video right away. Dog breaks off the chain super aggressive and there's some sort of interaction or conflict right away. We don't wait so we get straight into it, right? That's part of what makes the viral videos viral. They actually take the most intense parts of the viral video. Sometimes these videos gets more views than the original video because we actually cut out all the fluff. And so you can see here like that original video was literally like a minute long. This video still got 4 million views. So the concept that a video only needs to be 30, 45 seconds long is completely wrong. It just needs to satiate the avatar's appetite to actually watch content. So the key here is don't ever react to anything without breaking anything down. That's when you're known more so for entertainment than for education. You're going to get tons of views and not that many customers. If you want to test if your reaction is actually working, ask yourself if the viewer learned something that they could have only learned from someone with my level of expertise. If the answer is no, you made a mistake. And that mistake happens pretty often when people try format number two as well, which are step-by-step process breakdowns. So here's why this works so well. So psychologically, process breakdowns are the most direct way to prove that you know what you're doing. You walk through a piece of work on camera in real time. Either you can do the thing or you can't, right? And the viewer can tell which one it is within the first 10 >> [music] >> seconds. It's basically a free trial. The viewer essentially is watching you do paid consulting for them for free. By the third process breakdown they've watched, they feel like they already know how you'd handle their account before they even booked the call. Here's what it looks like when it's done well. You pick one very specific deliverable you create for a client. You break it down step-by-step on screen. You show actual artifacts like Google Docs, ad accounts, edits, spreadsheets, and you don't water it down or hold the real advice back. That's when you know you have a winner. Here's example of Sam O'Leary doing the exact same thing. So you'll notice here that he doesn't just say Yeti runs good ads. He pulls up the ads, sorts them into categories, shows the patterns, and walks through why each type targets a different buyer, which instantly poses him as an authority. So he starts off the video with a simple before and after hook and uses a conceptual map. And uses a conceptual map that he actually created himself. And then now he's showing examples of how a huge brand is doing it to support his claim. So let's start at the top. Facebook ads used to ads to and that very and I think And then now he's just breaking down the entire process end-to-end. And there's really no place to hide here because if what you're saying is actually true, it's going to resonate with a lot of people, it's going to make a lot of sense, it's going to break limiting beliefs, and people are going to naturally watch you. But if what you're saying is just the same repeated AI slop [ __ ] no one's going to watch the video. And the reason why this did extremely well is because it was number one broad enough where it attracted multiple people, then number two, but revealed something very interesting because he actually broke it down step by step. That same move works in any niche including yours. If you're a dog trainer, you're going to walk through the step by step of how you're going to train a dog. And if you're a landscaper, you're going to walk through the step by step process of how you're going to shape a front yard. If you're a copywriter, pull up a high converting sales page you've written and break down exactly what you did to get that result. And you can actually use that same authority hijacking in a better way with this next format, which is authority hijacking clips. All you need to do with this format is leverage the credibility of some bigger creator or authority and use them as the hook of your video. A great example of this was a podcast clip where Kevin O'Leary talked about why young marketers will be the most paid people in business over the next 10 years. [music] >> No, I think the job that gets you the most money now is if you have talent in social media for customer acquisition. >> That clip went extremely nuclear. So many people with creative strategy coaching programs used it to promote why learning the specific skill they're teaching will be so lucrative. Because if Kevin O'Leary said it, then it must be true. Unless you hate Kevin O'Leary like I do, but that's besides the point. If a new creator pops in your feed, you typically don't give a [ __ ] about what they have to say. But if someone that everyone within a specific community looks up to says something, then there's actual credibility behind why that specific method works. This is a concept called framing. And this was one of the highest leverage points of one of our clients, Kevin. So if we look at Kevin's page right here, um you can see that his videos are getting insane numbers, right? Second video he did 50k, third video he did was 100k, and the second most recent video here was 600,000 views, which is absolutely insane. And the reason why he was able to accomplish this, and he scripted this all by himself, he didn't we didn't help him with any of this, was because he understood a key term that increased his framing by tenfold. And that was Citadel. So his avatar are students who are looking to succeed in college, and he offers them a solution to get there by publishing AI papers. And so for him he was trying to attract a ton of high performing students to sell them uh the program. And all he did was put the word Citadel inside of videos and he's absolutely ripped. >> Here's the Like you can see here like the shooting is like not the best. The editing isn't anything crazy. He just yaps. Like it wasn't it's not like some super highly edited uh script either. It's not It wasn't It doesn't have like a ton of like short form tactics within it but it just absolutely ripped because the framing was so good. So in this scenario he is the authority and the framing was so strong. And another creator who does this extremely well is Musa. So he teaches people how to make money with clipping. And that business model is typically most popular within the streaming community. So what does he do? His highest performing hooks consist of a famous streamer talking about how much they have paid their clippers last month. Then he pauses the video and introduces himself as the guy who started this business model. This is him on a call with Sneako and you know a few years ago we all knew about Sneako. I need an editor. What's your [ __ ] username? That's a video of me And it's just him showing the interview. T20 when And then he's just using a storytelling hook to talk about how much money he made. And now he's talking about how he worked with Sneako and now he's doing his own clipping. And how much money he's made since then. So a simple way that you can find your own clips to use for your specific business model is to search up an authority figure's name and then the key term in your niche. So for example if you sell sales training search Jordan Belfort sales and you will find a ton of content where he talks about knowing how to sell being one of the most valuable skills in the world. Pair that with this next format and you're going to start printing leads. >> [music] >> And format number four, our last format, are live strategy sessions. Mr. Beast recently told a story about the Sidemen charity game. He said the shorts creators got very little cheers when they came out. The YouTubers got the entire audience war and the streamers got multiple standing ovations. The same concept applies to business content. Ultra edited talking heads is the shorts creator. It's polished, scripted. A green screen process breakdown is the YouTuber. There's a bigger reaction and more respect. The streamer in business content is a live strategy session. This is a newer format on Instagram. So you want to move on it fast before everyone catches up. All it is is a raw video where you're answering a very specific question for client or ideal prospect and showing your process live. And the reason why this format works so well is simple. Talking heads and process breakdowns are pretty saturated, right? Every business model has thousands of people running that exact same format. So, when a buyer is about to spend money on someone, the question they're really asking is, can this person help people just like me? The bigger thing happening there is everyone is slowly becoming a streamer. Audiences want real, unpolished content from the people they're going to spend money on. That's why streamers are the biggest creators in the world right now. You just spend real time with them and see who they really are. The market has gone so aware of how scripted talking head content is that polished content doesn't read as expert anymore. But, unpolished content plus a concrete outcome plus you sounding smart while figuring out in real time tells a buyer that this is a real person that knows what they're talking about. And a creator who does an excellent job of doing this is Nosh and she actually got 43 million views on one of her videos. It's a shame that she didn't monetize it or try to brand herself as an authority because that could have absolutely ripped here. But, you can see here that she uses a skit hook at the start to get attention. It's a scenario. Then, she literally just uses B-roll step-by-step of what she would do when designing a new program. Shows you the process of actually coding the thing. And visually tells a story of how she's creating the whole thing. It visually tells the story of how she's actually creating this egg timer. And sends it off. Amazing example showcasing her expertise without actually saying anything. And I can promise you, someone inevitably reached out to her asking if she can help with one of their projects. Now, imagine if you did this for your niche. If you're doing skin care services, if you literally just told a story of how you would do from step one all the way to step 23 of how you would help fix someone's skin. The viewer who has a ton of skin problems will be able to see themselves in steps one to 23 and be sold before they even buy. And the process of doing this is actually extremely simple. You would just break down your process step-by-step as you normally do. Then, you're going to find a hook or a relatable situation that your avatar has on a daily basis that's funny, engaging, and broad at the same time. Use that at the start, record B-roll of how you would do it, and then just put a voiceover on top of it. Every one of these four formats demonstrate expertise on screen. You should be trying and testing all of them because some might work better for you than others, depending on your personality and niche. If you want me to map out which of these four or any of all the other billion formats that make the most sense for your business, the application is below. We'll get on a call with my team, and we'll do a live audit and tell you exactly which format will get you to a winning format as soon as possible. But, if you're not ready for that just yet, check out this video where I create an Instagram strategy from zero, and you can follow along step by step. See you there. Peace.