I gained 90,000 Instagram followers in 17 days without running ads, doing a collab post, or getting lucky off the back of a trending audio, which is pretty awesome. But what's more awesome is that my business collected 70K in cash in that same time span. And I did this by posting the same type of video over and over and over again, going completely against 99% of the content advice that you see online. You see, I developed a theory about content two years ago. And it's helped me take people like Pack Le to averaging over a million views a video, as well as got Lucy and Brienne their first million view videos in the first six videos of working with us. And that theory is that every single creator, regardless of niche, has a specific content formats that puts them in the best position to dominate their category compared to all the other competitors. Right? So, in this video, we're going to go over the exact process that I use to find my winning format and become one of the fastest growing creators in the personal branding niche. And by the end, you'll have a road map on exactly how to find yours. So, I want you to think of every business creator or creator in general that you look up to. So, they all became household names on social media off the back of a few formats. Or meets World became the number one marketing page on Instagram by dominating the green screen format and talking about product packaging trends. The diary of a CEO podcast pioneered podcast trailers and used that to soar to top 10 and Spotify podcast charts. And in recent memory, we had Ashton Hall become the fastest growing page on Instagram by dunking his face in Saratoga water in every hook. Here's what they all had in common. Once they all saw a bit of fraction in their format, guess what they did? They doubled. And that's honestly the issue I currently see and want to eliminate amongst all entrepreneurs. The average business owner hires a junior strategist and asks them to build out a content strategy with 30 ideas and formats. Or even worse, they ask AI, "Give me 30 different content ideas I can post this month," completely ignoring the data that's right in front of them. Every successful creator didn't have their first video of a new format blow up instantly. Instead, they gave multiple attempts at a content style they were confident in before they threw it out or doubled down. And that's exactly how I reframe my view of content to gain 90K in 17 days and how you should be looking at content moving forward. But that leaves you with the question, how do I actually find my winning format? Now, almost everyone answers it the wrong way. And I don't blame them because that is what most advice out there tells them to do. Open Instagram, find whoever is getting the most views your niche, and just try to copy them. But what they don't realize is once you're copying someone inside your own niche, you're already too late. That format works for them because they were the first to market. And that's what we call the first mover's advantage, which is one of the most important skills when it comes to content, being able to spot trends and patterns that are eventually going to blow on social media. But the real answer to becoming a first mover in developing your format is by looking outside of your niche, combining what you find with your unique insights, skills, and personality. Those three creators I just listed, and myself included, all did this to develop the formats that we're known for today. Right? Yes, there are a few legacy formats that are always going to work. Talking head videos, reaction videos, before after transformations, those will never die. But it's the combination of legacy and who you're uniquely positioned to be that creates winning formats within a niche. So me personally, I dream girl scroll every day as a problem or process to come up with content ideas. Right? Every single time I find a outlier video on Instagram, I ask myself why. What made me stop? Why did this look different? What was the pattern interpret? Why was the hook good? What was the structure of the video that actually made it work? And so that's always allowed content to click in my head. And one day I came across a creator in a completely different niche and they were nothing to do with content or market. And they were running this reaction format that was absolutely ripping. And what I did was take a variation of something that was already proven in another niche and apply it for myself. I combined this with the fact that doom scrolling for content is already part of my process anyways. So I basically just vocalized what was already going inside my head. And the reason why this clicked for me was this was already a part of something I was doing, right? It just took somebody else to show that that format would work and for me to say I can put my own expertise and twist on this and make it work for my niche. And I would argue it's actually an even better fit because this actually allows you to build your authority and isn't just entertaining. So the creator that I took inspiration for the format for was Adam inspired. You can take a look. He's been just absolutely ripping for the last few months, right? He's averaging consistently a million views a video basically. And all he's doing is he's just labeling it. And so I was thinking, if I'm already labeling a bunch of the stuff that I'm already seeing within the videos, why can't I just use this format that's currently working really well for him? Take the exact same thing, same posture, you know, same position, same kind of like editing style. Um, I added a few things to my format, which was like content strategist, and then I would have the arrow, and I would also have like the view count for the video because that's what mattered to my audience, like the view count. Now, the one thing I didn't do was I sped up the videos. The reason for that was because I use a lot of jargon in my content. So, I just felt like that might be a little bit too much. But yeah, like you can see he was just absolutely ripping for the longest time. And this was his winning format, right? Like he just crushes. And so I was like, so all I did was simply uh take inspiration from this format, rip it, go from there. Right? Now, if I just took it and ripped it one for one and instead of trying to label jargon or words that actually helped my audience and just made it entertaining, it wouldn't have worked whatsoever. You still need the ability to understand what to take and what not to take and how to actually add a twist. But the point is I didn't really invent anything new. I was just taking what already worked, putting a twist on it, using my brain to understand how I can apply this demonstration so I can still create authority for my personal brand and then rock from there. That process is the exact same regardless niche you operate in. You find a format that's already proven somewhere else. You bring it to your niche before anyone does and you go. Now, that seems easy enough, but there are actually four steps that prevent you from wasting hundreds of posts using the wrong format. starting with what you do when you get the idea. Now, once I had it, I didn't just start filming, right? I built the format out before I even recorded a single second. This is the most important step that most people skip. They have an idea and immediately start shooting, but they have no idea how the video should actually develop. If you skip the build, you'll film 10 videos, get inconsistent results, and have the structure just wouldn't work. And you have no idea what to adjust because you never locked down the format to begin with. So, I want to walk you through the four steps I actually use. And it all starts with step one. List out everything in your skill set/niche that you do for yourself or your customers. Write down every skill, every activity, every part of your process. So this So for me, that's the research, the scripting, the client calls, the doom scrolling of ideas, the editing feedback, everything, not just the flashy stuff. So for me, I'm a content strategist. And so for my clients, I've do market research, understand their avatar, create a brand and positioning so they can slot them in the gap in the market. Come with content ideas, doom scroll content for research, script out videos, give editing feedback to my editors, operate a team. So these are all the things that I do. And the reason why I picked doom scrolling for ideas because one of the biggest relatable pain points for my niche is coming with ideas, right? Coming with hooks. That's also another one. Those two are two of the biggest kind of concerns when it comes to social media. And so I use that format to target that really big pain in a new and refreshing way. And it just ripped. Okay. Now, step two, ask yourself what visuals you can pair with each activity. So for every item on the list, ask what it would look like on camera. So most people never think about this because they're so focused on what they're going to say that they're forgetting the viewer is watching something the entire time. Right? When I'm writing hooks, I'm at a laptop typing. When I'm doing B-roll, I'm behind the camera. When I'm iding, I'm on my phone scrolling. Every activity that you do from the list that you just made has a visual attached to it. You have to notice it. So, for me, it was really simple. I already knew that this format ripped. And I I'm already on my phone scrolling the entire time. I just had to position myself 45°, pulled my phone out, start scrolling. And you actually don't even know this, but you don't actually need to film yourself doing the actual thing. I literally wrote down the script, aka the jargon and the words that would say, had it in my Apple Notes, and I just read it off it. Wait 5 seconds. Read off of it. Wait 5 seconds. read off of it. Wait five seconds. And my editor just cut it up. I actually wasn't watching this video the entire time. But the visual needs to match the activity so it demonstrates expertise. It showcases what you're actually doing for your customers. And then step three, you want to structure so it's repeatable. A format only becomes a format when the visual and the script follow the same pattern every single time, right? The viewers start to recognize it. They know what to expect. And that recognition is what builds your following over time instead of just random spiky views. And so like I get this all the time. Like I've jumped on so many calls. inevitably someone in that call will be like, "Oh, hey, that's the stop start guy." "Oh, or or oh, hey, that's the hook breakdown guy." I'm like, "I didn't really intend to have that association, but it's benefiting the personal brand, but that small association is benefiting the personal brand longterm. It's getting more me more clients." And so, for me, the consistent structure I follow every single time is I play and then after that, whenever I have a meaningful comment I want to make, I just make it. And knowing that this structure worked for me every single time allowed me to just script out five, 10, 15 videos in the span of like an hour, whereas it would take someone an hour to script out one script. So, not only is it, but it was also building a ton of authority while getting a ton of views. And then lastly, step four, we script out all three hooks. So, every single video needs three hooks working at the same time. The visual hook, which is what the viewer sees in the first frame, the verbal hook, which is the first words that come out your mouth. And then lastly, the written hook, which is the caption or text animation that appears on the screen. When all three are pulling in the same direction, the first three seconds do more work than the rest of the video combined. And it's really important that these three appear all within the first one second because the visuals that you have, what you say, and and the text that they see, they'll understand through the patterns of the thousands of the videos that they've watched previously. They they'll they'll subconsciously categorize the video. They'll categorize it either as a video that was a waste of their time or they'll categorize it as a video that was a good use of the time. They got dopamine from, they got value from it. And so within that first frame, it's really important that you're actually showing those three hooks. And so I'll literally walk you through one of the videos and the visual hooks, verbal hooks, and text hook I use within that video. So if you just go to any one of my videos, right? Let's let's say we're using this uh Tracks NYC video. The visual hook is pretty straightforward. Tracks already has a visual hook within his video. And so I just need to borrow that for the reaction video. So I just show that right away. And this is a really important part. I want to show the view count here because that's what my viewers care about. This also shows I'm a creative strategist and I'm talking about social media and views. And then now at the bottom, we have my text. So my text took it's a billion views content strategist. Here I was just trying to test whether or not a billion views made a difference. But content strategist is the most important thing because that gives me authority within the video itself. Arrow pointed to me and there's no verbal hook here because I want the reaction video to play. But in a lot of instances this is just like the first line of your script. And you can see that I did the exact same thing across all my most viral videos. Right? This one had 2.2 mil and exact same thing. Content strategist visual hook was Kenny. And then there's me reacting to it. Shelby, same thing. Brian Johnson, same thing. Um, as also Jeff Nippard, same thing here. Label video on top rightand corner. View count, same thing. And this first step process will look completely different depending on who you are and what your niche was. If I was a dog trainer, for example, I would look at all the different types of breeds of dogs that I'm training on a daily basis and ask myself, hey, can I do a format on how I train certain breeds of dogs? If I was a lawyer, one of the things I would be doing is I would probably also be doom scrolling a lot of times and I'll probably have a reaction like a viral motorcycle accident video and be like, "Oh my god, instantly this guy can make a million bucks like that by doing this, this, and this." Right? That could be a format. If we look at the fitness or nutritional niche, that's exactly what they did as well. They literally have a format called what I eat in a day. And the whole point here is that you can create your own format by just understanding the things that you do on a daily basis. After my first few videos blew up, a lot of people try to copy the reaction format and almost none of them got the same results because I planned for it. The number one reason that most farmers must die out is because they're easy to replicate because everyone will post the exact same type of video within a week. The content game isn't what it used to be. It quite literally is the wild west out there, right? Post some other stuff and not really worry about other people copying because your competitors were still trying to figure out how to set up their ring light. But the game is completely different right now. Every business owner understands they need to be posting. So they definitely have the equipment. So even worse for you, they have a team or a claw that scans Instagram 24/7 looking for content copy. Once the first video blew up, I spent the next couple days and recorded and edited six videos a day. So how did I beat this? Right. Once the first three or four videos bleed, I knew I had a winning format on my hand. So, I spent the next couple days and recorded, scripted, edited six videos a day of the same format. So, by the time a competitor had the bright idea to copy my video, it was already too late because I already saturated the market with hundreds of my own videos on my main feed and my trial reel feed. So, I had first movers advantage and now the format is attached to my face and every single time someone else's copies, it just gives me more social proof. That's what's amazing. Another issue that people who try to copy me ran into was that most of them had the same execution and adjusted zero things, right? Same energy, same structure, same everything. Video after radio with no change. So the thing is formats have to evolve as you get market feedback. The core stays consistent, but I have to keep adjusting the execution based on what the data is telling you. So there was actually a real situation where as soon as I posted a video a few days later, I would notice literally make the exact same video of the exact same video. So that wasn't like super smart. And the reason was because we were all in the same niche, that audience appetite for that specific video was already satiated. They didn't need to see that video anymore. They want to see the next thing. They wanted to see new jargon coming out. They wanted to see breakdowns of different types of videos. They want to see other format. So what I did was I asked myself, who would my avatar actually watch, right? So the names came down to Brian Johnson, M on the Brain, Alexi. And I knew that even though they enjoyed business, they usually would have a bunch of supporting hobbies or other niches that they were into. And I took advantage of that. And the biggest thing for me was rather than trying to predict the perfect video to react to, I just took a ton of videos and out competed everyone by just doing more volume because the more volume I did, the more feedback I would get. I would know what types of videos would attract certain followers and what types of videos would be high in converting. All that to say that stealing a single viral idea and running a repeatable format are two completely different things. Running a repeatable format is what's going to actually allow you to scale your personal brand. Trying to steal viral ideas will only allow you to get a spike here and there. So, let's say you've done everything right. You found a format from another niche. you built it out properly. You're not copying anyone inside your own space. And so you start posting, right? And the views come in lower than you expected and you start second guessing. This is where most founders go wrong. They see posts with low views as failure. But it's actually really just data. That's really how I've looked at it. And that's the biggest thing that I've learned as a content strategist. And look, I get it, right? When you post something and gets 300 views, the last thing you want to do is post more of the same format. But that's actually the discipline that separates the people who actually find their format from the people who stay stuck. From true business owners and personal brands to want to be entrepreneurs and personal brands, right? Test I use with every client at Clip Cut is to post four videos in the same format. Calculate your average view count across those four and that average is twice your baseline, aka the average you were getting before. That format has legs and you keep going. If it's not hitting the 2x, you either need to adjust execution or this just isn't your format. Either way, you now have actual information to work. By week two of my run, I was averaging 100,000 views per video and I collected 70K. That's what happens when the test confirms your format and you just keep running it. And before this, I was literally just averaging 15,000 maybe 10,000 views per video. And I knew this was my format on the second or third video because I noticed two things. The duration of the growth of the views. It didn't just stop after one day. It kept growing after days and weeks. Number two, the acceleration of growth. It grew much faster than the content I had before. And I wouldn't have been able to do this without first going through all the failed videos that I've done before because all that is just data for me to consume and actually understand content at a deeper level. So look, I've run this process across countless accounts, across most niches that you can think of, and the result is always the same, right? Founders who find their format win, and founders who keep chasing random ideas stay stuck. So if you're a business owner or founder who's serious about making organic content that actually works for your business, the application is below. Get on a call with me and my team and we'll audit your brand live on the call and we'll see if we can actually help you find your ring format. And if you'd like to see me do it live, watch this video where I build out a million-dollar content strategy in under 20 minutes. See that?