You're a hundred million dollar a year organization [music] now. If you hadn't put so much of an effort into messaging, constantly testing, how big are you if you hadn't just kept [music] playing with the messaging? >> We would be antiquated Blockbuster. I mean, [laughter] we are fighting against becoming Blockbuster. We must constantly innovate. If we did not innovate and change and evolve, we would have lost people a long time ago. If you've ever struggled to explain what your business does, or you felt like your marketing should be converting better, then join us for StoryBrand your business live. It's a two-day workshop here in Nashville. It's happening September 1st through 2nd, where Donald Miller himself will teach you how to build clear messaging that works. And at the event, you'll also get direct feedback from StoryBrand certified guides, so your message finally connects with customers. All of this year's workshops have sold out, so don't miss your chance. Register for the StoryBrand your business live event happening September 1st through 2nd at storybrand.com/live. You're listening to the StoryBrand podcast based on Donald Miller's best-selling book, Building [music] a StoryBrand. The StoryBrand framework is made up of seven key elements, all of them anchored in one powerful idea. Your customer is the hero, and you [music] are their guide. Each week on the podcast, you'll get exactly what you need to craft clear messaging that connects with more customers and grows your business. Now, let's dive in with your host, Donald Miller. So, on today's episode, we're going to look at a case study about how messaging grew a hundred million dollar brand. Messaging is a critical part of it. Tons of lessons for you. Trisha Shurtino is our guest today. She has built a company called Ballet Solutions. She is the CEO. You guys sell, if you will, you place staffing in all sorts of businesses. If you guys have come to dominate this space, and you would say messaging, how you talk about the products that you sell, what you call them, how you position them in the marketplace is a significant part of your growth. Would you say that? Absolutely. Okay, let's go back. Let's go Let's go all the way back to the beginning. What was it called before BELAY Solutions, before you were the CEO? Yeah, we were EA Help. EA Help. Executive Assistant. >> Assistant Help. >> Okay. Right, very clear. Yeah. We were EAs and we were here to help. And that's That was doing fine, if I'm not mistaken. It was. >> was growing. >> It was growing tremendously. And we had clients come to us and say, "Hey, what about other things you could help me with?" >> Oh, got it. >> "What about" >> So, you guys got worried early about sort of being put in the box of executive assistants. >> True. listening would say, "Well, 10, 11, 15 million is pretty darn good." Do you remember any messages and maybe it was before your time, but I think you were there early as well. You just weren't the CEO. Yeah, I was employee number one, so >> number one, yes. I was there. I founded >> story. >> Yeah, yeah. A lot of people out there trying to grow their business, they're not getting traction, their message isn't catching on. Can you tell me what that season was like and what you guys played with in terms of messaging to get the company going? Yeah, originally, you know, when we went to market, we were very clear on what it was we were solving. Right. And we've learned a lot of that. >> a big principle there. >> Huge. >> of people don't even think about that. They think about the features and benefits, but they can't even really articulate the problem. And what what do you >> a lot of that from from you and your framework. I mean, transparently, we we knew that we were creating a business that was solving a problem. Originally, when we launched this company back in 2010, we were solving for, number one, I cannot find an executive assistant that lives near me. Got you. Okay. >> So, I Our very first client lived in Cheyenne, Wyoming and he had run through all the resources in his local town. He knew he needed an executive assistant. He could not find one. We would then come in and say, you do not need to be local. You can have a virtual executive assistant and we could be the solution. So we were solving for location that people were running out of. >> the first kind of messaging angle is you is you can't find anybody close to you. >> You can't find them close and you can't find them fractional. Got you. >> So we went fractional. And then we went fractional. You don't need full-time. You're a small business. You don't need 40 hours a week. You can't afford it. You're not ready for it. You don't have that much work yet. You want a scalable solution that doesn't need to be local. So there's so there's so And then how did you message that? Because that seems like two kind of significant problems and did you did you find that by only like we would our principle would be we'll focus on one of those at a time because it's hard to be known for solving two problems. The I don't need anybody for 40 hours to me would be just my gut would say that's the one that you lead with. Uh and the the geographical one I mean you sort of lose everybody in the Atlanta area, the Dallas area, the New York area because there's so many options that I wouldn't want to lose those markets. So Yeah, I think we But but how did you guys choose? Yeah, I think we hooked them with the idea that it was fractional. Yes. So they were bought into the idea that oh, I could get somebody that is the quality of a full-time assistant but only get them for 10 hours a week. >> Yes. But then when we got them on the sales on the call we were selling to how remote and virtual would work. And so the initial capture was I need somebody fractional but then the objection was but how does this work when you don't live near me? >> Yeah, and we call this first date, second date, third date, fourth date messaging. In other words, there's things that you say to get them to go on a date with you and then on the date there are things that you say and you can't mess this up. If you say all the stuff that you say on the fourth date on the first date, they're not going to go out with you again. So, you So, you just Yeah, you just put a little um a little timeline on the messaging. So, this is a multi-tiered messaging. We say fractional to get people through the door, and then on the sales call, we begin to explain the nuance of how this works, but we don't Did you not explain the nuance on the landing page? Did you keep your message simple on the landing page and the introduction to the product? Yeah, it was very very simple, and a lot of that language on those those early websites were from conversations you had with our owners at the time. I had. You. >> Donald Miller. You, Mr. Donald Miller. >> gracious. I'm so proud. >> Well, right? Like because in the beginning >> those calls. I remember going on and >> would lead with we um we are modern staffing for you. We are the hero, and we're giving you something. >> modern staffing for you. That is a high cognitive load message. Yeah. >> What does that mean? Yeah. You know, and in that that's pretty much what you said. Like, what does that even mean? You know, and then we got to the place where we're like >> use the term high cognitive load, meaning I can't figure out what you're saying, and we and we say high cognitive load leads to low orders. I I feel like yes, we were high cognitive load because we were we were speaking in terms that were not easily relatable. >> Yeah. And so, >> They sort of feel like they mean something, but you can't quite figure out what it means. >> but I don't know what you're saying you do exactly. >> Yeah. You know, so then we moved messaging to things like, you know, accomplish more, juggle less. Ah, got it. >> Because the the client is overwhelmed. And so, we will help them accomplish more and juggle less, and that was kind of our first iteration. >> ran with that for many years. And that grew the business. >> That worked. That grew the business, yeah. >> Okay. It's It's literally just you're like trying to find your abracadabra sometimes. You're trying to find What are the words that I say, and when I say them, people place orders? Like, that's the game often in in just messaging and you guys played that game well. So you went with the fractional. What's interesting is like now we when I think of Belay Solutions, I think of fractional help. It's just almost synonymous, but that is to be fair hard earned. It's years of you guys repeating it to train our brains to think that. And agreeing that's who we were. So there were So there's actually a business strategy and identity involved. Yeah, because there was opportunity along the way. You know this as a business owner. Like things come across your plate. You're just like, oh, what if we became a placement service and we did this full-time EAs? What if we did do on location? You know, all those opportunities come across your desk and as a business we had to say, who are we? What do we solve? Let's not go off course. Let's be known for what we're known for. And so candidly, we stuck with, nope. We are fractional. We are not on site. We are not full-time. We are not these things. This is our lane. It's working well for us. Let's not create a flood in our river. This is a point that a lot of business owners come to. They smell money on the other side of the fence and they think, well, if we just move this fence, we can have some of that money. The problem is the broader the net that you're trying to catch fish in, the bigger the holes in between the you know, the rope. It it's it it works that way. So the smaller the net, the more fish you catch. The broader the net, the more ocean you fish and the more fish swim through the holes. You know, that's just kind of how it works. But how did you guys discover that? I mean, you say, well, we had to be true to who we were, but did you realize you had to be true to who you were when sales slowed down as you brought in the net? Like was there a penalty that you just went, okay, this isn't working. Let's come back and or were did you guys were you guys just brilliant before you even made the mistake? [laughter] Of course we were brilliant. No, I find I get more brilliant as I make mistakes than I do without making mistakes. >> we did not we we knew we had a great leadership team and we would come to the table and we just really agreed like this isn't broken. We were growing. It doesn't need to be changed. It is literally our value proposition. It is who BELAY is. We are fractional. Like we just dug our heels in on that. >> Yeah. Now, we did pivot when it came to other services, which we can talk about later. Yeah, that's another whole other conversation. >> whole 'nother conversation. But we we just never stepped out of that lane and feel like it it actually did us great service to not step out of the lane. Um we did pivot messaging always and still are to this day. So, in the beginning, we were EAs. We were EA help. Then virtual assistant became a very big thing. So, I'm like, "Oh, everybody's talking about a VA. We need to now be VAs." So, then we changed our messaging to VAs. Then AI and automation came out and now a VA is a bot. Right. >> So, now we're back to EAs again. So, like we are constantly our messaging is always evolving to make sure that we're clear on actually who we are. We are not bots. Yeah. We are humans. So, we have come full circle and we are now executive assistants again. Walk me through early on, what were some of the words that you guys were using on sales calls, landing pages, keynote addresses, webinars? What were some of the things that were just you discovered this and it started working. I mean, as soon as you said it this way, people engaged. Yeah. >> And I you've done that a little bit already, but I'm curious were there any phrases that you remember going, "Gosh, Don, we said this in the [laughter] webinar and realized this is this is good." The The biggest thing will be um that I can think of is probably 5 years ago or so. Okay. We actually took the tagline, the right hire right now. And we got that from your [clears throat] framework. Okay. From time we spent with you. The right hire >> assistant? Or is that a >> for That was for an executive assistant, but it also carried across the brand to allow us to go into other roles outside of an executive assistant as the business was evolving. So, the right hire right now >> You saw traction when you hit that. immediate Okay, so the problem or the tension, that we call it an internal problem, the internal problem is I need the right person in this seat right now. And And everybody who runs a business who has more than three or four employees knows exactly what that is. And so, you're sort of playing a little bit in the space of head hunter, Mhm. but you're associating that again with executive assistants and so forth. Is that right? Yeah, and because part of what the the buzzwords were for us, in addition to we are fractional, um we are high-quality EA, we were US-based, um and >> because they're not wanting somebody in the Philippines >> then right, VA brought in offshore, nearshore, all that stuff, and we would we would not that. So, we were talking about not being that. Um so, those were all important things for us that resonated early on. We were teaching people what it meant to work remote. Um we were teaching people what it meant to be fully managed. >> Nobody I mean, remote wasn't sort of >> No, so we had to educate people like what it meant to have an employee that didn't work in your building. We had to educate people. Yeah. And so, that was That was a big one for us. >> helpful then. COVID was actually We were one of the people who thrived >> Same here. through COVID because we we knew how to run a business remotely. We never had offices. Like we didn't skip a beat. Yeah. Um and we were able to keep moving on. We had people who were going out of office and they needed help and so they would come to us and we were able to kind of step in and support them. So it was it was a great opportunity for us and and a great, you know, 2021 was a great growth year for us coming out of COVID. Um and the world has not you know, has not been the same since. So now we don't have to sell against remote anymore. Right. >> It's a conversation. Sales calls are have never been the same because we don't have to explain what remote work is anymore. Well, good. I also want to talk about the messaging to create your inventory. And what I mean by that is recruiting talent in order to position them as virtual assistants and it you've got you've got two markets here. One market is the person who needs a virtual assistant and the other market are a lot of these, I mean some men, but mostly women with bachelor's and master's degrees who want a part-time career, but want to raise families. That's That's by the way, I got to tell you just having having hired a few V uh VAs from you guys, that's part of the genius is you're getting extremely good talent that you probably would have to pay a lot of money if they didn't want to also be a mom. And and it's it's a fantastic stick, if you will, because >> [laughter] >> you're not lying. I Well, I you know, I got on the phone with my with I've had a couple of them with a my virtual assistant. I'm like, "What are you doing at home? You should be the You should be like working with Jamie Dimon or something. I have no idea what you're doing." You know, and "Well, I love my kid, but I I'm not going to give up my career." And I'm like, "All right, this is great. This is fantastic." >> we have This is This is a very powerful statement. We have never had to spend a dollar to recruit. Really? Yeah, because the message is exactly why we created the company. So, Brian and Shannon Miles and myself, right? We founded this company off the premise that we wanted to create a place where you could come to work and people could work fractionally because Brian was tired of traveling. He didn't want to be on the road. He wanted to be home. Shannon wanted to be home with her kids. I wanted to be home with my kids. They were young. I was sick of sitting in an office for 8 hours a day and I wanted to be home, but I was a mom, but I wanted to work. >> Yes. And so, this was the message that really word of mouth got out very quickly that you mean I can take my career, put it aside, take everything I've learned and go do something for 20 hours a week from home? Is this real? And in the beginning, we would get candidates that would come on and I used to interview all of the first EAs. I was the talent sourcer back in the day and they would be like, is this real? >> [laughter] >> Is this like a Is this a Is this a scam? Like, is this a real job? Like, this does this sounds too good to be true. And it's like, no, we will literally find you a client. We will introduce you to a client and we will work with you and the client and you will work together for however many hours a week you would like. And you can choose your journey. You could have one client and work 10 hours a week. You could have two, work 20 hours a week. You could have three, work 30. Whatever that is and you choose your journey. >> Yeah. Or one for 30. I mean, whatever it may be. And so, >> Yeah, they could pick their journey. And so, that that >> Is there Was there a separate landing page that explained these things or literally just word of mouth had them calling you? >> Yeah, word of mouth and we have we have like a jobs landing page and we have ads on Indeed, FlexJobs, all of those flexible work option things um that have worked for us, but we get today, I mean, 6, 10,000 resumes a month. Wow. Monthly? >> figured out This is my entrepreneur? Yeah. Have you figured out something to sell the 9,950 people you can't [laughter] hire? You know what I mean? I mean there's got to be something there. >> talked about it so many times, you know, [laughter] and we're like, "Nope, we're staying in here." >> for crying out loud, and take a commission. Certainly, of course. Yeah, of course. >> [laughter] >> I mean, minivan, course, what's the difference? But, yeah, I'm wondering, cuz that's a heck of a lot of leads. I mean, people >> It's a lot of those leads. And now, we do not sell our leads. We have never sold our leads. So, please don't hear Donald Miller saying is in the lead. But, but I'm just like, that's a lot of leads. >> It's a lot of leads, but it speaks to what you were saying earlier. It speaks to the quality we're able to then choose from. >> Right. >> And so, when you're getting 6,000 resumes and you need to hire 50 every month, like, you are literally getting the cream of the crop. And over the years, because the influx has grown, we've gotten to tighten and complicate the interview process and make it really hard to get through so that the people that end up at Ballet really have passed a series of testing that I honestly could never even pass at this point. >> Yeah. It's It's difficult. Well, that that's why they're so good. I mean, that's literally why I was just taken aback. I'm like, I couldn't have found this person on the open market. I couldn't have found somebody with this kind of talent. >> It It really is like the secret Yeah. sauce to our organization is we're able to do what we do and grow because we actually have this amazing talented pool of people that are constantly wanting Actually, we're selling them a lifestyle. What is the process of you narrowing down that talent to find the best? I'm sure there's assessments that you Oh, yeah. We use an applicant tracking system. No, we use we use an out-of-the-box applicant tracking system and they run through a multi-step application process. So, they're filling out an initial questionnaire that has knockout questions that immediately will kick out 50% of those 6,000. Is that things like, do you have a bachelor's degree or or whatever it >> like, do you live in the US? Do you have any kind of administrative experience whatsoever? Are you looking for fractional or full-time work? Got it. Okay. So, it's like >> like not qualified for what we do. Yeah. >> Absolutely not what we do. So, it's immediately knocking them out. Then they go into a series of testing. They do a one-way interview where we send them questions and on the spot they have to answer them on video and that's being screened by our recruiters. They also go through a physical skills assessment, which is actually a testing like an LMS program where they have to pass different series of tests. We're testing for grammar. We're We're putting them through what-if scenarios. How would you handle if a client did X, Y, and Z? So, we're putting them through those. That is then all >> part. I'm out. Can't work it. >> Me, too. I'm the typo queen, MLA. Um yeah, so they have to pass all the And then it's scored. And then if you get an 80% or higher, you then get to actually have an interview. So, you have to go through all that before you've even met with the person that works at our organization. Then you're interviewed and then the interviewer will decide whether or not you'll get a seat on the bench. Once you get a seat on the bench, which means we've extended you a contract, we think you could be an executive assistant with us, you then have to interview again for an actual client once the client comes on. Okay, let's move on to a giant challenge. When we've added revenue streams, products that don't intuitively feel akin to StoryBrand. It's a mixed bag. And what I mean by mixed bag is it's gone well in the sense that we've been able to provide millions of dollars worth of value for customers, but it's always created confusion. And sometimes so much confusion that we say, "Look, the the money's not worth it." >> Mhm. You guys launched a fractional accounting or fractional sort of CFO. Was that the second product that you created? After executive assistants? Yeah, so bookkeeping. We started with a bookkeeper. We started with bookkeeping. We did bookkeeping. Fractional bookkeeping. Started with that alone. We did that for many, many years where we just did bookkeeping. >> What was the Was there tension or was there, you know, confusion in the market or a little bit, yeah? Yeah, in the beginning we were EA Help and we were Mag Bookkeeping. We're actually two separate brands. Two They didn't know we were the same person. And so like the cross-sell or the collaborative opportunity was missed. And so then up at the top you had leaders leading and owning multiple business units and it was run very differently, different processes, different branding, different marketing. We were basically running two different brands. Yeah. We got to the point where we said why why have two websites and two teams and two leadership structures and two of everything? Can we become one company that has two products? Now, were you already I mean I I would imagine both brands were were making millions in revenue and you were still saying we've got to solve something here. Yeah. Uh that's a hard Those are hard decisions to make because you're You could lose it all, you know. >> Yeah, well that's That was when we It was 2017. I remember it very clearly. Um we called it Mission Possible and we merged those two companies and became Belay. We were EA Help and Mag Bookkeeping and we became Belay and it was an It was a whole event for us and our internal team. Um but it was a very difficult year in the market and it was actually a year where we really struggled for people to find us because they knew us as EA Help or they knew us as My Bookkeeping and now we were this new name and this new brand in the market. It It took us a long time to get traction and really come together under one new brand. That's when we >> anecdotally I the number I use is 3 years. Yeah. That when you make a decision like that you should not expect the ship to be righted for 3 years. And also 3 years only if you're aggressive. Only if you're constantly saying it. >> You know, I wish I knew that in 2017 because it Walk me through mid-2018 are you guys going we might be >> We We had We had recovered. No, we had We still grew. We were still growing. Growth slowed and everything felt heavy. Like everything felt like a lot. We were trying to merge everything behind the scenes. It was basically like a merger of two companies. It was like it was like one acquired the other and we were trying to bring everybody together. Um so it was a lot of behind-the-scenes operational madness if you will to to bring all these companies together and that created just employee confusion a little bit which of course is then resonates out there. >> Your team has to be on board. And your the people who we are certifying they have to be on board and when you realize they're not it's very possible we can get this done. But if they're not on board you can't get it done. You made it through. We We made it through and then we keep you know, we keep butting up against the same scenario. So we We were able to make it through. We came out on the other side as BELAY. You know, we became >> How many years? Yeah, probably 18 months we were back where we hoped we were. I think people, you know, still didn't It took people I don't know how long it was before people realized BELAY was EA Help. Like even if I say that today people don't realize that was something that happens. It It took It took a long time. >> I remember EA Help. That was the name of the company. And now it's hard for me to think of you as anything other than BELAY. It takes a little time. >> time. Yeah. >> Yeah. And you know, and now we have this bookkeeping service on the side, which was kind of the secondary >> Bookkeeping. What is it called? >> Just BELAY. Yep. >> So, you can hire a fractional bookkeeper, you can hire a fractional virtual assistant under BELAY. >> Same company, right? Same same website, same form, same sales. >> have a name? Is it executive assistant or It's Assistant Solutions and Financial Solutions. >> Got it. >> That's where we got to now. So, but we used to be a VA and a bookkeeper. That we were We were VAs and bookkeepers. Then we became EAs and bookkeepers. Today, we are Assistant Solutions and Financial Solutions because under Assistant Solutions, there multiple different types of products today. Wow. So, you've got a whole tree of products these days. >> Well, because we have an executive assistant. We have a marketing assistant. >> Uh-huh. We have assistants who are like sales assistants. We have assistants who are operations assistants. We have all kinds of talent underneath the assistant bucket. So, we didn't want to niche us into an executive assistant alone because we felt like it was misleading. Sometimes you need an assistant for a team, a team admin. Right? So, those are things that like, oh, we need to broaden the scope a little bit. So, we are all kinds of assistant solutions. You know, the future is an HR assistant, a sales assistant, operations assistant. >> sounds like you guys are all fitting under the umbrella of virtual staffing. Like you could actually just own virtual, you know, virtual staffing. I The only thing I don't like about virtual staffing is it it feels it feels uh limited. Like it's like a bunch of interns. >> Well, we don't like the word virtual anymore, you know? So, that's what we're trying to >> What don't you like about the word virtual? I feel like it actually in the current state of virtual reality and AI, I feel like it undermines the human Yeah. >> element and quality of person. Because on the financial solution side, I mean, we're CFOs, we're controllers, we're complete outsourced teams now. Like, that whole service has grown beyond just a bookkeeper now. Mhm. I mean, we're we're we're placing entire financial teams inside large organizations. Their entire financial department is Belay. Yeah. And so, virtual feels like it undermines that. So, it's like, what's the next level word that's >> fractional staffing solutions? >> Fractional staffing. I like fractional staffing solutions. There's got to be a word in there though that that overcomes um the sort of subconscious that this isn't quality. You know, when when we think fractional staffing, we think you know, somebody who's chewing gum and is a security guard. >> [laughter] >> Very clearly not a good solution. >> What do you think about What do you think about managed service? I don't It doesn't make me think it's anything. I mean, I like that's um managed service. I don't know what that is. I think it it would require too much explanation. Might be too too high cognitive load. But fractional something staffing, fractional staffing and then some word in there. Did you know that Milwaukee tools when they released their line of electric tools, they didn't sell well? Because people were used to plugging in their tools or they were used to gas powered tools. And they just didn't think the quality was going to be there with a battery. Mhm. And so, a hockey stick happened in sales. Sales exploded. When they started calling their electric tools fuel. Mhm. They built a bridge from the old world to the new world with just a word. And all of a sudden, Mhm. you know, these blue collar plumbers went, "It's the same as gas. It's fuel." Mhm. You know, and so I think that's the word that's sort of missing from fractional staffing is the human element or even fractional human, you know, educated fractional human staffing or you know, highly experienced human staffing or you know, there's something in there Yeah. that sort of lets people know, "Okay, this is safe. You know, we can you know, or even you know, what's the word? It's not qualified, but it's vetted. Vetted. You know, there's something in there that anyway, we could play with words all day long, but you guys have clearly won >> fractional staffing. We call it >> [laughter] >> quality fractional educated >> words. So, let's just throw the word fuel in there. It worked for Milwaukee. [laughter] Well, I just but I love that we, you know, we wondered whether or not there was a podcast to record if we just talked about words. I think there's about [laughter] 6 hours worth of this podcast we could record. But it does speak to the importance of getting the words right. If you get the words right, it helps you get the product right, but it helps the customer understand what's in it for them. How are you a a survival asset for me? And don't make me think. The cus- every customer is looking at you going, "Hey, what do you offer?" And by the way, don't make me think. Mhm. Don't make me figure it out. Tell me exactly what it is. And you guys have won, I'm convinced, because you've been able you you have been so committed to playing with these words. And living probably with the tension of chest testing, constantly testing, constantly wondering, "Could we be doing better?" Yeah, I mean, every day. And I will have you know that every single person on our marketing team upon hire is required to read StoryBrand book. Oh, I'm glad. Required reading for everybody in marketing. We're constantly reviewing your framework. I'm constantly running everything through the lens of like, "Are you positioning Belay as the hero here? >> [laughter] >> What is the problem we're solving? Like, right? So, that that has been ingrained in like how we're constantly thinking through who we are as we evolve over time. So, it's just it's part of the framework of how we do marketing and messaging and branding at BELAY is, you know, just follow the process. Try Don't make yourself the hero. What are we solving for? And just give them what they need and and don't try and over um overcomplicate things. Because as as organizations grow, when you get to the size that we are, it's very easy for things to become extremely complex. And so, we're constantly fighting against keep it simple, keep it clean, keep it neat, make it clear. Yeah. >> Don't be complicated. Well, I'm I'm honored that we could help. We couldn't be helping a better group of people. We cannot not talk about the messaging challenges of adding new revenue streams. Like, walk us through how you expanded the vision and the product offering. Like, can you just give us some some some anecdotes about how you guys went through that? Yeah, it it is still a work in progress, I will say. I'm being honest. >> But you've grown every year and you've just surpassed 100 million. So, work in progress was always Yeah, it's working. >> [laughter] >> Working in progress is how we should say it. Yeah. >> that's a great way to say it. I I think, you know, we moved to the right hire right now, which helped us really cast net over the hire could be more than just an assistant. So, that messaging helped us. Um we are very um clear on having the brand messaging be very specific on a leader's value add and it's beyond what used to be you're overwhelmed, we can help you has become you lack expertise, you lack um time. We've shifted the pain to make sure we cover what the pain would be for somebody who needed financial expertise. We have found that that's that's two different pain points. And so when you're looking for an assistant, you're likely overwhelmed or out of time, you're um there's chaos, there's disorganization. That is not the same sentiment or feeling somebody for somebody who's looking for a financial support, whether it's a bookkeeper or CFO. Typically, it is like I lack the expertise. I don't log into QuickBooks. I don't know how to code. I don't know how to do this. I don't want to know how to do this. It's it's clearly a completely different compelling offer. And so the the need is that is still the same in that they need to hire somebody. And we are the experts, but those two service lines internally sit completely separate. It's two completely different second dates. Right. >> completely different sales calls. It's two completely different um messaging throughout the journey of those people um then it is on the other side. So it really internally feels like two different business units under one brand. And so the evolution of our messaging as BELAY is something we're we're constantly testing. Apparently. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Well, how do you you know, it's one thing to come up with messages and test them? It's another to get the rank and file to understand them and employ them. I remember David Salyers at Chick-fil-A told me that that their effort to get employees to say my pleasure when somebody says thank you was a three-year disciplined campaign. You would think it'd be like, "Hey you guys, we say my pleasure now." And everybody just does it. This is absolutely not the case. You know, you have to you're literally breaking lifelong habits for these teenagers and store managers who are older. How did you guys get the sales reps? Were there here's our talking points, here are sales scripts? Walk me through just the collateral that you had to create to create disciplined messaging. >> Yeah, and and it still exists today. I mean, I still have, you know, things come across my desk for approval and it's it's using old language that doesn't cover the brand. And so, when we talk about assistant solutions, we talk about um a customized match. When we talk about financial solutions, we talk about it being a holistic solution. It's different vernacular and language. And so, that's been mixed. What we've done internally is we've actually separated the teams out. So, we used to be one sales team that sold bookkeeping and or an assistant. So, regardless of what you were looking for, you would get in front of one of our team members, they would work through what your challenges were, and we would sell you a solution. What we figured out very quickly is that the financial solution is a way different conversation. You really have to understand business finance, you have to understand accounting. You actually have to be able to uncover and speak to and solve their problems, and you need to know something about finance. And so, we separated our sales teams, and so we have a financial solutions sales team who are people who they know finance. They're former CPAs, former CFOs, former accountants, um that we've placed in that role. So, it's really an educational consultative conversation that you're having versus on the EA side, it's very much about overwhelm, getting your time back, delegation. It's just a different set of things. So, internally we separated all that, and that immediately that that was game-changing for us. >> Really? Yeah. >> the the year we separated those teams apart So, different sales reps talking to >> just grew. Isn't that amazing? >> Quicker than ES. >> And really what you're saying is when we reduced the cognitive load on our internal team and on the customer, [clears throat] sales went up. When when you were talking to somebody who was only talking about finances and only talking about those things, you know, it's the reason that Procter & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson separate those brands and you have no idea what the mother company is. Yeah, it's like >> Otherwise, it would be Procter & Gamble soap, Procter & Gamble chicken nuggets, Procter & Gamble >> Right. Right. [laughter] Right. Procter I love their soap and I love their chicken nuggets. Which is it's actually what it is. Yeah, like >> That's what it actually is, but they can't do that. Right. We believe in consultative conversations. Like we don't want to We're not selling you anything. We're We're here to give you a solution. We can't solve your problems on a call if we can't actually talk about the right solution. So, you have to know enough about how to solve someone's problem. And so, now we're doing the same thing on the assistant solution side. So, we have a product We have a marketing assistant now. And we're like, "Okay, the person who is looking for a marketing assistant needs to get on the phone with somebody who understands marketing." Yeah. They have to be able to ask the right questions, help solve problems, and find the right solution. They can't speak to somebody who maybe is just selling an executive assistant. So, we have found that as you start putting specialization inside the organization, it removes a whole bunch of friction for the client, for the prospect, and for team members transparently. I mean, there are team members who were trying to sell bookkeeping who were like, "Thank you. I don't have to I can't do this. I don't want to do it." And so, letting people kind of work in an area that they feel like they're an expert in has helped grow the business. And then, putting those experts in front of our prospects and clients has been helpful in growing the business. Well, Tricia, can we just summarize all the principles that we can think of that would help >> [laughter] >> You know, part of it one of the principles is play with your messaging until you find something that works. >> And keep going. And keep going. >> Keep going. I would say another principle, and feel free to add to these, is silo your messaging. So, one message for the the finances, one message for the executive assistant, one message for the marketing assistants, one message for the And then take it a step further, we will have a message for a Donald Miller prospect that's different than a message from a Google prospect. >> demographics of enterprise staffing solutions versus small business owner or thought leader, even that is you're playing with that. Yes. So, yes. So, even an email communication or a text you would receive from us would be very specific to who you are, how you found us, and where you came from. So, I would say when you're young business, everything is general. Yeah. Everyone's a generalist. Everyone's wearing 10 hats. Everyone's doing a lot of jobs. Um and the bigger we get, the more we everybody is become a specialist and everything we do is specialized. >> Yeah. So, that is a huge leadership and we will continue to click into there. We will continue to become specialized. Two final questions. And I know you can't give me any accurate, exact answer, but I think the audience will understand what I'm looking for here. What percentage of your time as a CEO, of the effort from the company, is spent just thinking about and executing messaging? The getting the words right. Like, how much how much of mental bandwidth is that >> time? Yeah, like how much mental bandwidth is that taking up? I mean, a few hours a week. Yeah, I'm I feel like it's like 20 to 25% of my time is literally just how we're we going to word that? >> Yeah. Yeah, I feel like, you know, I have an awesome marketing team. I know they're using the right framework. They're spending 80% of their time. >> They're They're spending 120% of their time, you know, thinking through how do we say this say be test this which ones which works better am I saying the right thing in front of the right person? Like that's all they're doing all day long. But I think as a leader, if you hire the right people to lead parts of your business, marketing or whatever part, then you shouldn't have to spend more than a few hours a week on that thing. That's literally I have a chief marketing officer, so I don't have to spend 75% of my time worried about messaging. Right. I know he's equipped. He knows what I want my wishes are. He knows what I believe about the company, our brand, who we are. I know he's AB testing. I I shouldn't have to worry about I feel the same way about client services. I feel the same way about our business finances. I have a CFO in there. I know she knows her stuff. I don't have to mess with it. So, I think, you know, again, hiring the right people always Yeah. is is the answer to most business problems. >> Hire the right way. >> the more that [laughter] the longer I run a business, the more I agree with that statement. Uh final question, if you hadn't put so much of an effort into messaging, constantly testing, constantly pivoting, constantly changing, constantly figuring out what works, uh you're a $100 million a year organization now, how big are you if you hadn't just kept playing with the messaging? Like what? >> Oh, you know, we would be antiquated Blockbuster. I mean, [laughter] we are fighting against becoming Blockbuster, you know? So, like >> winning. Yeah, we're we're like we we must constantly innovate. Yeah. Constantly innovate. So, if we did not innovate and change and evolve who we are, who we say we are over the years, I we might be half the size. I mean, I don't Yeah. We would have lost people a long time ago. I mean, >> I don't think anybody would even know StoryBrand exists if we hadn't said that. >> taken us out like yeah, a lot of other people. We could have been you know, we could have been gone. Trisha, congratulations on your success. If any of our listeners want to know more, belaysolutions.com/donaldmiller. Uh you'll get some sort of discount. I would imagine some sort of bonus there. >> for your people. And then also, if you want us to help you clarify your message, go to storybrand.com. We've got so a lot of options for you there. Trisha, thank you for coming on the show today. Thank you. Thanks for >> Incredible success story. Congratulations on your success, very, very hard earned. Thank you. >> And uh we're we're proud of you, glad we could play a little part of it. Yeah, we appreciate your guidance all along the way. Highly recommend your book, your guidance, your counsel. We love doing it. Thanks for listening to the StoryBrand Podcast. No matter where you are in your marketing and messaging journey, get the tools, the training, and the support you need to start clarifying that message at storybrand.com. And don't forget to follow and subscribe to the show wherever you get your podcast so you never miss an episode. And if you're watching on YouTube, hit that subscribe button, and then leave a comment letting us know what resonated with you and what we can impact to help your business grow in a future episode. Thanks again for listening, and we'll [music] see you next week.