PROVENANCE: The Anatomy of a Dream — 'The Content Strategist Who Turns Founder Brands Into MILLIONS', https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPSxuquqxRw — published 2026-08-04. Verbatim caption transcript segment (~47:47-52:15): Caleb Ralston's origin-story monologue, spoken answer. NOT quoted in skill files.

for real, it started with uh me and my sister stealing my mom's Canon PowersShot camera and filming funny little videos in the backyard. And then as I got older in high school, I started becoming really obsessed with powerlifting. Just my entire world revolved around it, honestly. And I started consuming a lot of training videos online just to learn, but also to get stoked before going to the gym. And I just was like, damn, I love watching these guys train, but these videos are awful. They're done terribly. They're boring. And I decided, I want to start making video content for these guys. And so I would literally go to the local bodybuilding shows where they would have a guest poser. They'd bring out the Mr. Olympia Flex Lewis, for example, and I would just go up to him as an audacious 15- 16-year-old and I'd be like, "I think you have done an amazing job with building your physique, but I think your videos are kind of like not very good. If I film you while you're here and I make some cool little mini vlog and you like it, maybe we could work together." And so I started doing that. But when I was 18, I was like, I think I want a consistent paycheck. And so I started working at a company uh called Logos Bible Software and we had an in-house media team and that's where I started learning like more of how you guys do the production. And so that was an amazing season of my life. And then a crazy thing happened. There was these massive layoffs. I think they laid off 30% of the entire company. And I was part of that. And it was actually the best thing in the world for me because I had gotten to a point where I was debating whether or not I should leave and go do something else. I felt like I hit a cap of what I was able to learn and do there. And so this propelled me into an era where I was doing freelance and a friend of mine introduced me to this I502 cannabis company in Washington state. It was when cannabis was first legalized. So this was brand new. Yeah. And they were wanting to build their social presence and that was an incredible time in my life. I developed this idea of like my competitive edge in the marketplace is I'm gonna work with brands to create these little moments. I'm gonna take these little moments that we all experience and I'm gonna inject the product into it. And so we were able to do that and I was able to actually work with my sister who does a lot of production and set design. She's incredible at that. I got to hire buddies that were helping with motion graphics. I got to bring people from my world into my work. And I remember I had a studio apartment downtown in Bellingham, Washington where my sister and I, we would work and just grind and we'd have like Gary Vee videos on the TV that we'd be watching and like trying to learn and apply those things. And I was making more money than I had ever made in my life, $48,000 a year. And I thought I was the hot shot. I just started, I think, having this attitude where I was operating like it would never go away. And um then that turned out to not be true. Uh about eight months into working with uh this client of ours, they came to me and said, "Hey, there's some things with regulations and these different taxes that are changing that our tax bill is about to be enormous and we are not going to be able to compensate you in the same way that we have been. We're going to need to cut your compensation in half." And I uh had not been saving money or being smart in any way. I also during this time made the huge mistake of thinking that these would be my clients forever. So I wasn't working on getting new clients or building any sort of weight list. Yeah. So you were really relying on that client. All my eggs were in this basket. Jesus. Yeah. I had to go to my sister and to my friends and say, "Yo, I can't pay you." And so now I was seeing the domino effect of my decisions. This was my fault, not their fault. I know clearly I could have made different decisions, been more intelligent, and more thoughtful with how I was operating. What I do is no longer just impacting me. I'm not this 17-year-old kid who's making videos in my parents living room and it's just me. So, what did you do? I quickly recognized, okay, I need to get back into action. If I mope about this, I'm not going to attract any sort of amazing opportunities. Nobody's going to want to work with somebody who's like down in the dumps feeling sad for themselves. They don't give a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about that. And so I quickly pivoted into, okay, I don't have a client right now. What kind of side project could I take on? I started working on it. I was It's so stupid.