PROVENANCE: YouTube interview 'standing out in 2026' (Caleb Ralston guest; source of skill Patterns 11-17), transcript on file at extractions/caleb-ralston/transcript.txt (65,808 bytes, ingested 2026). Verbatim segment chosen from a stretch NOT quoted in skill files.

hat client through? Because uh I know it's a big long question, but like how does that person start? Because I think some people here maybe went down the wrong road or they're restarting their personal brand right now and they want to know, hey, could you tell me the right way to go so that I don't climb this mountain and then realize they climbed the wrong mountain? >> Yeah. Well, to be clear, that's never really the case with our clients because I'm I'm very self-aware and I know I'm not a fire starter. I'm gasoline on a fire. If even if you bring me a little lighter, I just need a little flame and then I can get it going. So, I rarely take people from zero to one. It's usually like the >> maybe like they posting content but they're not getting results essentially and that's why they came to you. >> Well, if they're starting from zero and they're literally beginning, I'm actually not going to try to optimize anything other than them showing up. I'm going to do what I did with myself, right? What I did in the first year is we did not have any single number in mind for views or subscribers. Like in the back of my head when we put the course out, I was like, "God, if we get 10,000 views on this in two or three years, I will be like ecstatic." It has 850,000 plus views right now on YouTube. It's crazy. It's insane. I never could have imagined. And so I think so many people are they're they're like getting into it's like getting into lifting, right? I don't know if you guys know who Chris Bumstead is, but he was I think he's won the Mr. Olympia like six or seven times. It's like crazy. He's jacked out of his mind. And if I go into the gym tomorrow and I try to do Chris's routine, I'm going to break every limb imaginable, right? And I think so many people who get into content look at the top dogs, the people I've worked for, other amazing individuals, and they try to replicate what they have done. And that is a losing formula. And so I would encourage you, pick one primary platform that you're going to focus on. Okay? This is your main platform. For us, it was YouTube. I just wanted to build an insane amount of trust with y'all. And I believe that trust is uh expedited by the amount of problems that I can help you solve in a short amount of time. And so I'm trying to do that. Instagram was going to be our second and LinkedIn was going to be our third very quickly. And this is coming from the guy who has, you know, been on the teams and led the teams that are the highest volume out there. And I told Trevor, I was like, "We're not going for volume at all. We're going to do one YouTube video a month and we're going to try to get an Instagram post and a LinkedIn post out a week and that's it." and I was like wanting to put all of my effort into the pieces of content. The point being, I picked a number that felt realistic, stuck with it, and the moment that I had capacity to increase it, we're increasing it. We're going to double our output on YouTube this year, and guess what we'll do in the next year? We'll probably double it from there. The biggest thing that so many people get hung up on is they think that they need to start at the volume that they aspire to be at from day one. It doesn't matter where you start as long as you every month, every two months, every 3 months, whatever your cadence is, are increasing the amount that you do. So, I think that's a big one. I also would say that in the beginning, you want to do a lot of volume. Contrary to what I just said, you should do volume. This is a moment where it's like, you know, uh, listen to what I say, not what I do. I've been making content for other people. It had been 16 years when I started making my own content. So, I understood this. I had met in just 2024 alone over a thousand business owners that were asking me questions and sharing their problems. I knew what I needed to make. But a lot of you don't know what you need to make. And so you need to utilize what I call the accordion method. You need to use the expansion phase where you do way more volume. It's like an accordion. An accordion, right? And so you're going to expand it. Do more volume not to show up everywhere and bug all your friends on Instagram, but to get data. You need data on what your audience wants more of. So if you post more, you're going to get that data quicker, right? And in the beginning, what this looks like is every video averages 103 views and then one video gets 417. And that's your data that your audience wants more of that one. And that's what you have to go off of in the beginning. And then over time, you can start to add in all the optimization. But I like whenever I meet with somebody, I am telling them like keep it as simple as possible. It's just like fitness. If you try and track every macro calorie and you do all the crazy workouts and you do the red light sauna and all this [ __ ] it's just overwhelming. It's like, let's just get the habit of going into the gym first. >> Yeah. We did uh once a month, then bi-weekly, and then now we're on weekly. >> That's incredible. I'm I'm going to try to catch, but it's hard. we like you think oh once a week no big deal it is it is a it is a lift and we had to bring in someone to help you know on the team so if you're trying to start with weekly you know it's like oh that doesn't sound like much you will you'll fall off so I think what Caleb's saying is like hey let's pick something more sustainable and then stick with it I would rather see someone continue to show up 52 weeks a year then come go hard for two months and then we never see him again which is what happens normally >> that's the majority yeah or or you build something and 18 months 24 months later you're like what the hell hell have we been doing? I like I don't even know if this is working or not. >> Yes. Uh chasing the wrong metric. Okay, so we'll do one question from Cap and then um guys, is this helping you contentwise? Awesome, >> dude. Thank you again for being here. This is awesome. >> Thank you. >> Hey, Caleb. Thank you. Um so, I feel like my YouTube's like this mixed bag of tricks. I've tried a bunch of stuff and I was doing shorts and I got really good traffic with it and got a bunch of subs, but now it's like, what do I do with it? Should I go back and hide those, delete them? Should I like or just keep plowing through it? >> It's like a dead audience basically. Yeah. What is your goal? >> My goal is to go direct consumer is what I'm trying to do. Teach wealth tips, debt elimination, tax advantage. Um, >> and are you wanting to do that via long form? >> Yes. >> Okay. So, a big trap that we see a lot of people fall into, and I'm going to give a a qualifier in a second. Please wait for the qualifier. But a lot of people make shorts on YouTube and I've seen channels who get, and I know you've seen this too, a million, 2 million, 3 million subscribers. It's crazy. And then they upload a long form video, 13 views. Um, I'm not, here's the qualifier. I'm not saying don't make shorts on YouTube. I am uh we do it. I think it's great. But I would highly encourage you to take a break for a second from shorts and focus on long form. The the thing that we have started to notice over the last couple of years is people just want more of what they consumed. Whatever brought them into your world, they just want more of. This is why I don't like chasing virality. Because when you chase virality, you talk about stupid [ __ ] that you don't care about like your Starbucks order. Unless you're really into it, talk about it by all means if that's an interest of yours, right? But a lot of people will do their, you know, fast food order or whatever, not because they want to actually share it, but because they've been told by some agency that it's going to get views. But guess what? All those viewers want more of that. Exactly. And so it's the same not only in topic and subject matter, it's also in format, right? If they