The V in viral stands for visual shock. So if your video is not visual, it's not going to go viral. >> Today I'm talking to Jenny Hoyos, the number one storyteller on social media. She has built a YouTube empire with over 7 million subscribers and has billions of views across all her channels. 
There is no one that has mastered short form storytelling like she has. >> That curiosity gap, that is everything. If an idea doesn't have a curiosity gap, then there's no reason that the viewers are going to watch. >> In this video, we break down her formula to make any idea go viral, the 
storytelling structure behind most of her unforgettable videos, and her number one tip to become a magnetic storyteller. Whether you're creator, entrepreneur, or speaker, this one will change how you tell stories forever. >> So, I remember in one of the videos you said that you could make any video 
or any idea go viral. What makes a good story for you? >> A good story for short form content is not one that is fast. Cuz I find a lot of people start trying to stuff in a bunch of information and just talk really fast. Rather, a good story is one that doesn't have many story beats and has just 
the relevant ones to get to the end of your story. Usually, you have a goal in the you set out for a goal in the beginning. you have a problem that needs to get resolved and you only include the very few story beats that are relevant to answer that question. >> And what entails a story beat? Is 
that like a challenge and a resolution or what does that entail? >> Yeah, the the way I think about it actually so I actually have a framework. So it would be much easier if I just uh say what those what those are. So uh it's a new one I came up with like two months ago and it has been working in 
every video. So, super easy to remember. It's the acronym viral. The V in viral stands for visual shock. >> So, if your video is not visual, it's not going to go viral. It needs to be visual. And it doesn't matter what niche you're in. If you're in in an entertainment niche, then I'm hoping it's 
you're doing some sort of visual challenge or some sort of uh visual story. And if you're in an educational niche, try to find a visual analogy, whether that's like with marbles or if you're using like for example the blue ocean strategy. It's a marketing strategy and it's very visual because you 
think about a fisherman and there's fish and there's a blue and red ocean. Like it it visualizes it. So number one, it needs to be visually engaging, but it needs to start with a visual shock element. >> Um and then after that immediately start the video. You want to start these short form videos. 
Unlike movies where they have to give us context and the why and the motivation of the character, with short form content, you have to get right in to the juice, the peak action like at the we're almost at the climax already. That's where the video should start. >> Uh so immediately and immediately 
start the video. So not giving context. And then the R is rising action. We need tension. So what's the question? What's the problem? Tell us it. The A is anticipation. You don't want to give the answer immediately. You want to give us little hints and clues and puzzle pieces. And the L, a lasting 
payoff. You want to make a concise ending that concisely answers the question. And the answer or if you're asking a question in the beginning of the video, like what's 2 plus two? The last word you say in the video needs to be four. If you say four and make sure to people are going to leave because 
they they heard four and then they're going to leave. So, if you're going to ask for some sort of call to action, uh, part of that lasting payoff is to say it before you give the answer. >> That's fascinating and so easy to remember with viral. Can we go >> so easy to remember? Yeah. >> So easy. 
Can we go a little bit deeper into some of those components and you give our listeners some some of the tips on how to master each one of the steps? >> So, if we start off with for example the first one visual. >> Yes. Yes. >> And if we think of let's say someone typical in the educational space, 
let's say I'm a I'm a life coach and I some want to make some videos about that. How could I start for example with a an enticing visual at the start? >> Yeah. So there's either two ways of doing it, which is like using an actual study of something. So if it's like a a research study and showing 
like um like the the results or bar graph or if it's not then giving some sort of analogy of what it looks like. So for example, I've seen um I I there's so many different life coaches that have done this type or psychologists that have done these videos and I can't I wish I could find it to show 
it, but usually they'll start with like a bowl of of uh a specific color. So, let's say it's like blue and then they'll have a glass that has like uh red water. So, there's blue water and red water. And they'll usually say, "Okay, this blue water is is you." And this red water is someone giving you 
um telling you something bad. Now, even if they just say something small, your water is still blue, but it's it's going to um it's going to be turning a different color. And no matter if you add more blue water to it, it's going to take a lot more blue water to turn it from purple back to its 
original blue. So like that's just like a an example. Um I've seen another great example of a this is one of the best videos I've ever seen. This one I I definitely know the the channel. So you could use this as an example. Um Gohar Khan is the name of the channel. He has a video where he has a jar 
and he says, "Um, so if we were to pour sand, rocks, and golf balls into this jar, in what order should we pour it in so we can fill it completely up?" And then the video is him saying, "Well, let's start with the sand and putting the rocks." Oh, wait. There's no space for the golf balls. Okay, 
let's do the rocks, then the sand, then the golf ball. There's still no space. But if you put the golf balls first, then the rocks, then the sand, then there is space. And that's because the way you should be allocating your time is by doing the bigger tasks because that's how you should start your 
day. You should start it with that foundation and then the little tasks will have space to be filled up at the end. That was such a great video um analogy. So just try to always think of visual analogies. >> Got it. That's fascinating. Yeah. Instead of just using the analogy word for word, you 
really you paint the scene by playing it out real life. >> Yes. >> And so the second one was immediate action. I think that's clear just boom, you start with the momentum. Can you share a little bit more about the third one of how can you get that was rising um what was the third one? >> Yeah, like 
rising action rising action. We need we need to know >> we need to know what we're watching for. So I think this one is um this one well they're actually all just important but I think people struggle with R and A which is like what is this conflict? What is what is this um anticipation as well? So 
I think we can combine those. The way I think about it is we're immediately so we have that visual analogy we're immediately starting but why are we watching until the end? That's why I think about rising action like what why are we okay not only is what are we watching till the end for but why 
should we care cuz the question you you you in theory could do something like how do I make my coffee okay but there's no there's nothing like >> making me intrigued about that yeah that's a question that that you're going to give me the answer to but but make us make us care so is it because um 
this is how I make the coffee that keeps me awake for more than 24 hours. What? That's insane. Okay, I need to know how you make that coffee. >> So, you increase the stakes. What are your other preferred ways of how do you make your audience care? That's I guess one thing is time pressure. What are 
some other ways where you feel like this really um goes well with any audience? Definitely I would say speaking to them something I didn't mention on in this whole framework because it all comes it you know first comes the idea before we we even get to this framework of course um but making them 
care kind of does come back to the idea and making sure that it revolves around them. So whatever like if you're doing something in a video are you do you're doing that to test it for the audience. Um or at the end of it they're going to get some sort of value. So you'll make them care by tapping 
into what they care about. Think about what makes them scared, what is going to excite them. What are their dreams? What are their um nightmares? >> Got it. Yeah. So the video should address something specifically that they think ah I need to have to solve or this is what I'm always fear fe feared 
about >> 100%. And something I want to add to that is it's the the wording like the certain way you word things or the order of the way you say things makes a huge difference because you could say two of the same sentences and they end up having two different meanings just because of the way that 
you rearranged it. Uh for that reason, that's why you always want to start your video by starting with you and then going to me. So like if if uh recently I saw a video where someone said that they were training um to run like a marathon, right? Instead of starting the video by saying I'm training 
to run a marathon, you want to start by saying here's how you you should train for your next marathon because this is what I'm doing. like just by like a rearranging the the way you said it and and saying it exactly like that isn't the most optimized way but the point is we always start with them 
and then talk about you. >> That is so fascinating because a lot of creators out there they just talk from their own experience without including their audience necessarily. >> Oh no the best creators always talk about their audience first. Even someone like Dan Martell has such a great formula and 
all, even in his long form videos where, for example, if he has a listical videos of like five tips, he always says the tip first and tells them how to apply it. So, it's usually like a three-step thing where he's like um the tip, how you apply it, and then his background and his story um with that 
specific experience. So, he's starting with them. >> Got it. Okay. Fascinating. And so raising anticipation is making them care. Anything else that you feel this is what someone definitely has to have in their story in order for the story to land really well. >> Yeah. Uh, another thing that is very 
difficult to do which will I I say is like part of the anticipation stage is making sure the viewer is understanding how close like where we are in the story, how close we are to finishing because if they feel like there's no end in sight, then they're just going to leave cuz they're just going to 
get bored. So, we want it we want it to feel like we are constantly progressing. Progression is super important. So, making sure that you are using language that makes it feel like we're progressing, like first, second, or um or even including mechanisms like what I like to do is um I like to 
include like if if the video is is me doing something in a certain amount of time, I'll have the timer on screen. If I'm doing a a recipe, for example, I'll have the ingredients on the top of the screen and then I'll check mark as I'm going through the ingredients so they understand how close we 
are to the video being completed. >> M got it. That's a good trick one. I'll try this one. If you think you've by now probably analyzed millions of videos. If you think is are there maybe like three mistakes that you see are the most common one that is stopping people from going viral where you 
feel like if they just fix this one thing then it would make such a big difference. I I definitely think it's it's selfish content and it's that people talk about them and not about the value that the person's going to get. Um but I think that all stems from not understanding their avatar or 
sometimes not even having an avatar. So I think it is really important to know who you are creating content for and ensuring that it is a market that has high demand and low supply because you can be in a market that has high demand um but there's a high supply of content creators creating that 
content. So you now can't be like a B like level creator. you need to be A++ the best at that niche >> versus if you're in a niche where uh the competitors are like creating content at a C level you being at a B means you're already the best at than everyone there. So um I would say knowing your 
avatar but also ensuring that you pick an avatar or a niche or you know those those things are are similar. If you pick an avatar then it it typically falls under a niche. Um, I think it's super important. I think that's I think that's that's I've seen creators who would try to I I've seen uh 
creators who've tried to be entertainment creators and they wouldn't get views because they're competing against Mr. Beast and then they niche down. Actually, I literally have a a friend that I I've helped. His name is Josh Krueger. He was he was doing like okay like in this uh in the entertainment 
niche uh basically competing against like Iraq, Ryan Tran, Mr. beast. But then he niched down into scootering content and now he is the best scootering content creator. Like it's it's crazy how just switching niches can make someone instantly go viral. >> That is fascinating. Yeah, that's so good 
to know cuz yeah, if we keep in mind oftenimes, especially when it comes to educational content or also business content right there the bar is relatively low but if we take the uh entertainment space it's pretty high. So if you apply some learnings, >> wow, fascinating. >> You talked about idea 
before. How can I come up with those viral ideas? >> Yeah, there's different ways to do it and I guess it all comes down to like what your niche is and you know based on that you'll know which is the best option. Like for example, for entertainment content creators, I would say that looking for 
outliers is the best thing. So essentially going on YouTube or platforms like view stats and seeing videos that are performing higher than average on the person's channel. So I used to do this all all the time where you would go and look for small content creators like less than a thousand 
subscribers and have gotten over a 100,000 views on a video. >> That means their idea whatever they did was good and you should recreate that. So that's that's one way and I think that primarily works for entertainment content creators but as far as other creators um I guess it also works for for 
niches in a way but then even so the issue with that is uh if the video has just come out and you create your own version how are you going to how are you going to do better than them or I guess you'd have to like find like with entertainment content you can find a twist but if it's like 
educational like what twist are you going to do? I guess you could try to make the video better, but anyway, because of that, it's also good to have your own unique ideas. And uh my favorite way is actually just through my own experiences um or like through content that I am consuming in other 
formats like uh books or TV. Um but I really like trying to acknowledge like everything that happens in your real life because everything is an idea. Um like literally like it's actually insane how how um everything is an idea for example you know how you you let's say waking up in the morning the 
first thing you do is grab your phone that's a hook or do you is the first thing you do in the morning do you grab your phone or do you grab your phone first thing in the morning boom that's that's a hook um everything's a hook even putting on your shoes I saw a relatable video on how like um 
instead of untying your shoes. Does anyone else just like slip them on and like actually spend longer trying to put them on with the laces tied than just untying them and tying them back on? Like that's that's viral. >> I think uh trying to acknowledge like things that happen in your day-to-day is 
really good because it happens to other people too and it probably hasn't been created yet. When people think of storytelling, they often think that it has to have this challenge that you or this mission that you stayed up front where like hey over the next 3 days I'm going to cut out all all the 
carbs in my life or I'm going to not going to look at my phone. People think that this is the way how they create stories. Would you say that this is how you usually look for ideas? It's usually those challenges type of videos or is there a better way? Those are my favorite stories for sure cuz the 
reason why I like those I like for for me personally is because when I'm going into it, I don't know what's going to happen either. So if I don't know what's going to happen, then the viewers definitely don't know what's going to happen. But you can definitely incorporate storytelling tactics in 
videos that don't have those traditional challengebased stories. It's just a bit trickier and you have to be more specific in the way that you are writing it. I would say >> if we take those challenge type of stories. One thing that I struggle with myself is that oftentimes I want to do a challenge 
but it seems like hey how do I compress that then into a 60-second video right let's say I go through this three-day challenge where I'm let's say I'm trying to speak more articulate and I'm documenting this but then it feels like hey how can I put this then in a 60-second video. Yeah, that for 
that reason. Actually, the first thing I'll say is I find that the best short form challenges last 10 minutes, not even maybe an hour max because you we don't want to have a lot of story beats. And if you were to break it up into three days, unfortunately, we'd be break because we don't want that 
many story beats. We would probably just say on day one, I felt three sentences. Day two, I felt three sentences. Day three, I felt three sentences. But you can't just break up an entire day into three sentences. Um, especially if it's a challenge, like for example, if the challenge is like eating 
a healthy diet, imagine breaking up on day one, I eat this for breakfast with this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, and that, lunch, like it's a lot. >> So, for that reason, I would actually encourage a a long form video. I wouldn't even say a short form series. I 
know people do short form series. um those work on Instagram, maybe Tik Tok, but for YouTube or just short form content in general, I wouldn't do a series. In that case, I would just make a long form. >> Got it. >> But yeah, the best challenges, think of challenges that like last uh like for short 
form, >> they really do need to be short stories. You need to tell stories that are really like actually just don't have much going on. >> Okay, that's good to know. And so if we take for example some educational creators out there, let's say we have this agency owner or again we have this life 
coach. What could be like a 10-minute challenge that they could record or document? >> I guess it depends. Like uh I've seen videos where people make a short where they try and close a client on a cold call. Like that's that's a a challenge they could do. or um could you give me like a specific 
niche that I could think about? >> Yeah, let's see. Let's let's stick with life coaches then for a second. And so, hey, you are in the niche, let's say, of helping helping men with confidence. >> Okay. >> Very relatable. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I I love that. I am uh almost wondering if there is some 
sort of exercise that you can do for self-confidence or maybe if there are certain I guess like a that actually reminds me of a video I just I just saw of someone like talking about like how before you do anything that is is going to be publicly or you need to be confident like just to like shake 
and and and uh be crazy. Have you heard about that tip? >> Yeah. >> How like you just want to like shake everything off like get all the energy. >> I do that all the time. Every single time before podcast before I go on stage, I shake out my body and I do warm up routine. >> Okay, there we go. That 
that's that's like a a video or uh testing out. It could be even actually because it's not an episodic series. It could be a non-epodic series where you're testing out different um warm-up routines. So, um yeah, the video could start like that trying and then blank celebrities uh warm-up routine 
before um speaking and then giving it a rating and then doing different videos where you give it different ratings and you don't have to say that they're they're linked, but that's a format that's a great format. >> Um and it's visual because you're you're you're shaking it all off. Um, >> but 
yeah, I would say challenges don't always need to be like what is like typically seen on YouTube where it's like how long can I hold my breath or something like that. It doesn't need to always be like that. Um, a challenge is ultimately a problem that you want to resolve. >> Yeah. And it can be the 
smallest problem possible as long as as it has a visual hook at the start and some progression throughout and a lot of twists in there. And so >> that they care about. Yeah. >> That they care about. And so what I hear from you is don't try to find the super unique one big challenge because 
oftentimes this might be a little bit too much for those shorts but rather more those short relatable things that people ask themselves. Ah I was actually curious about that. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, shorts are are meant to be short. It's like I feel like a good example is um I I saw a long form 
video where someone it was like an hour long where someone like went through the different fruits and the nutrition value that you get from them and which and then ranking like basically they did a tier list of fruits and then they like explained in thorough each fruit for an hour. A short would be 
um literally just doing each individual fruit. Um like the video would be showing a tier list with with one fruit of or one fruit of each kind on S through F and then saying so they already see which fruits are there. What tier would we put an app? Oh my goodness, this is a viral video. Okay. What? 
And then showing the the tier list and hooking with what tier would an apple go on? Well, it has a lot of fiber, but it also has a lot of sugar. And then when you look at the amount of fat in relative to this and that and blah blah blah, and then you build it up. So, so basically, you want to tell 
the story where it's like, it has this, but it's that. It has this, but it has that. And ultimately, for that reason, I give Apple a tier. And that's the end of the video. >> So, that's that's also like a a question. I mean, yeah, it's it is kind of like a it's a challenge. It's like a game. >> 
It's fun. That that's Oh my goodness. I hope someone does that. I hope someone does that. That's so good. >> That would be so fun. Someone after watching this video is going to do that. >> Yeah. No, that that's good. >> That's so cool. Are there any other ways how I can come up with those viral 
video ideas? Honestly, I primarily focus on natural experiences and outliers and I just try to get as many as I as I can through that. Um, just writing down everything to be honest. I mean, of course, the obvious the obvious thing I haven't mentioned yet is is AI, but I think the way that I think 
about ideiation is there's no specific tool that's going to give you the idea. Even AI, AI is not going to give you the idea. There's a bunch of these different things that can give you a tons of ideas. So, you could um you can share with AI, have it brainstorm a whole list. But what I what I 
recommend is just gathering at least 100 ideas and picking out one of those 100, the one idea that people actually care about that will be able to follow that framework. >> Jenny, can you walk us through your process of using AI for ideiation? Yeah. So, for one, I use a custom GPT that I created by 
essentially uh putting in like a 50-page SOP, which is a standard operating procedure, which in other words, uh for those for those watching um or listening. So, whenever I hire someone onto the team, I give them a 50-page PDF. It it sounds very long actually for them where they read through my 
entire process. I basically just like in detail wrote down everything I do from ideiation, scripting, um filming, editing. Literally, no matter what you're doing, you could be an editor and you're going to learn about my ideation process because you're also going to be in the story and you're going 
to want to know you're going to want to know the context and even the ideator. I'm I hope they understand what the editors are going going through so that they know that we don't want to be producing some sort of crazy thing. We we don't want to do it in post. We want have to do it when filming. 
Anyway, so I have a 50-page thing that explains everything I do and also more about my avatar, my mission, vision, uh my goal, and so that's in my my custom GPT. So, um my students have the have that as have access to that as well, which is pretty cool. But from there um oh because the GPT doesn't 
actually have my mission vision um because I use the same one that uh all my students use. So I have the SOP I have the custom GPT then I give it my avatar my mission I have a I upload two PDFs. So I have another PDF two pages actually very short just explaining my channel and different and similar 
channels. Um and then from there I just ask it to give me viral ideas. Um, and it'll give me viral ideas, but ideally you're giving it some sort of of like topic or some sort of format to start with. So, for example, I like to say, give me ideas um that start with the hook, is it possible to blank 
or what happens if blank? Because those are the type of videos that I I like to do. >> What happens if is it possible if to >> Yeah, always questions. I always give it like um those questions so it knows to give me an idea that isn't a statement because sometimes AI will just tell you like picking 
an apple out of a tree and it's like okay what what does that have to do versus it's like is it possible to grow an apple tree without a seed like oh wait what now now it's like interesting >> okay so it has to has the this surprise component in there Yeah, that curiosity gap that is everything. If 
an idea doesn't have a curiosity gap, then there's no reason that the viewers are going to watch. >> There's there's no reason to watch. >> If you had to give your viewers, your listeners, one or two tips to become a much more captivating storyteller, what would it be? on on on specifically video 
content. >> Yeah. >> The way you speak is everything. I've seen people like you can take the same script and someone's if someone says it without any enthusiasm or suspense, then the viewer isn't going to be engaged. Don't sound robotic. I think that is like the biggest thing. The the way you say 
something really makes a difference. You could be saying nothing. you could be saying nothing, but if you're talking like something's about to happen, people are instantly gonna be hooked. >> Uh, so so I would say that's that's a huge tip that is underlooked. Um, but another thing I would say is 
also similar to that is not having the same pacing throughout. So typically for my videos, I always have like the first 15 seconds is like lots of things are happening, things are moving quickly and then things kind of slow down to a medium pace from that 15 to 30 second range. Then from 30 seconds 
forward, everything is like super like slow, but not like slow in a way where it's like we're not progressing. Slow like wait, something like the suspense is about to happen. So, the way I think about it is like um actually I have this video where I tested if you can break an unbreakable glass and 
like the beginning of the video was like method one, method two, method three, method four, and then um method five and then it slows down. It's like, okay, I'm kind of nervous. I think this is going to work, guys. And then and then I I throw it off a building and then we let that play out actually 
in slow motion. It's falling off the building in slow motion. And then before it falls, we cut back to me. Okay, I'm gonna go check out the cup to see it right now. And then we reveal like because that's when people are most engaged. People are invested because of the suspense. >> That is so 
powerful. Yeah. Slowing down before the big reveal. So boom, boom, boom, boom. And then >> Yeah. >> Beautiful. I love this. >> That is That is so cool. I love this. Now, I've seen that you've been also fairly active when it comes to long form storytelling, but I think you stopped posting there, 
right? >> Temporarily. I mean, I'm working on a couple of them. >> Okay. So, what would you say is the biggest difference long form storytelling versus short form storytelling? >> Oh, for sure. It's definitely that they're just bigger stories that have more story beats. Um and that is usually 
because there is more days or there are more elements to it. So um going back to like the fruit example, it's like one fruit versus all the fruits. That's how I think about long form. I think about long form in the way that if you were to clip out a bunch of sections, it can work as a short. I 
mean, look at like Mr. Even like, and it's not even just the way I execute it. Mr. Beast does this himself. And one of his most popular formats is um $1 versus $1 million vacation or $1 versus $1 million date, $1 versus $1 million job. He has like a bunch of formats where he does that. Uh hotel, 
planes, etc. That is a long form where he's testing out all those different things. He could easily make a short and he has where he just reviews a $1 hotel, a $10 hotel, and that in itself is an entire short. So, I think about a long form and especially if you're a short form creator moving into 
long form, think about long form as a bunch of sort shorts back toback that fall under the same theme. Even if you look at like I love Dan Martell's videos, his are usually like 10 tips of something. If you were to clip them out, they're all shorts. Think of a bunch of shorts ideas that fall under 
one umbrella, one theme, and then make that into a long form. >> I love this. >> And it like answers one big story. >> Uhhuh. Yeah. And so almost every minute should be a standalone video by itself that it has its own viral characters as well. >> Exactly. Yep. >> Got it. Okay. This is so cool. >> 
Do you see any other big differences long form versus short form or do you feel that those are the things that you change the most in order to be successful on long form? I would say that is the main thing. However, of course, long form has a title and thumbnail versus short form. Well, they do, 
but they don't. So, on long form, someone needs to click on your video to watch it. On short form, someone has already ran into your video and you just have to keep them hooked. So, the way that you hook on long form versus short form is very different. The way I think about a short form hook is 
the way you should think about a long form title and thumbnail. So when I think about hooking with the t with hooking in long form. So if if the title thumbnail is a hook, then what is the actual hook? So basically the title thumbnail should be very similar to a short where it's it's visual. 
There's a curiosity gap. There's a reason to care. You have the reason to care within there. Um so when someone clicks on it, you want to now prove the title and thumbnail. That's that's the difference. You don't want to restate what you just said, rather you want to prove that in this video we're 
going to be doing what we just talked about and then also give more. So, not only did they click, but now they're getting more on top of it. So, the way I think about it is typically there should be like a multiple reasons to care in your video. Even with shorts, but mainly in long form, they 
shouldn't only just be watching for that a plot. the A plot being what they what they clicked on. They should also be watching for that that B reason. I think Ryan Dan's one of the best creators at this. Right now, he's doing his 50 states in 50 days series. >> The Aplot is he's visiting 50 Airbnbs 
in 50 days. But the Bplot is he's doing it to raise money for charity. And that's why people are going to keep tun tuning in. Yeah, it's cool. I want to see this really cool Airbnb in this random state. That's why I'm in. But now I'm invested in him this entire series because I want to see if he's 
able to raise a million dollars. >> Mhm. So it's the question below the main quest. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Fascinating. >> It gets really complex because um in short form there the best short form videos have a Bplot but it is very hard to incorporate a Bplot or to incorporate a complex Bplot. So when I 
do it, it's usually very simplistic, but with long form, I would say a Bplot is is uh is is pretty essential if you're going to keep people invested for a long time. >> Mhm. I remember the thing that held me back the most and going into long form storytelling was that the whole filming process just 
seemed so so so much work like to have constantly camera from every single angle on you. Yeah. >> What would be what would be your tip to get a little bit over this overwhelm where it just feels like it's so much work? Like how do you do with that? >> 100%. It it is a lot of work. And something I I 
always tell people is to have that that one place where you always film and have the thing set up there and it's like you know exactly how it is. It's the first time it's going to be difficult, but it's going to be familiar each time and I think that makes it very easy. Um, so I film a lot of 
videos in my kitchen and now it's like muscle memory where where the tripod goes, where the light goes and and how everything is and it's like setting it up is is quick and easy. And something I want to say because I already know what people are thinking um or some people because I've told this to 
people and I usually like the number one piece of feedback I get whenever I say that is oh but people are going to be bored of seeing this the same thing like don't they want to see different places like my channel is going to 50 different Airbnbs. Um, and the answer I tell them is no. People like 
familiarity. >> Look at the best shows. Look at friends. Every single episode was them in the coffee shop and the camera's is in the same angle every time. Or not even just them. You look at every single TV show or any like family show. The the camera is really everything is in the same place every 
single time. Do you notice that as well? >> And it's it's familiarity [Music] >> that is so relieving to everyone, right? that needs things fancy gear. I need to go outside. I need to do this. Just Yeah. Stay in the same setup once you have found the setup that you like. >> Yeah. >> Okay. >> That's 
why a lot of people have studios and I think or a lot of creators as they get bigger, they end up getting studios because it's very convenient. Like for me, I can't leave a tripod in the kitchen. But once you get a studio, um because I've seen creators like have a studio with the kitchen and you 
can just leave everything there and all you have to do is turn it on. >> Yeah. Yeah. That seems to be making things much easier. Jenny, if you were to give a tip to someone that is just starting out right now, short form storytelling, and he's like, I want to be like Jenny, what would be the tip 
that you would give to that person? >> The number one tip to go viral on shorts, I guess. Mhm. >> The number one tip because I feel like I've mentioned all of them. I want to go back to the the high demand, low supply, because that that is everything. Your video could suck, but if no one has made 
that video idea and people are trying to to learn what it is that you're you're talking about, then you're going to get views. And it's very hard to find that. But once you do, you're going to get a bunch of viewers on that video, and you just want to create similar videos for that audience. And um 
over time, you build a baseline level of viewership. I love this. This reminds me a little bit of business. In business, often times people go through an entire industry and look for what are the companies out there and where is maybe a niche that is not being served too well. And the same 
analytical mindset you can apply then to YouTube and you just analyze niche by niche and think hey what is the competition out there how much views are coming in and what could be the unique edge there. >> Yep. Exactly. Um so think about something that you love or a tip that I've heard creators 
say. This is how I I figured out my niche when I first started was um cuz I when I was first getting started, I heard that this was like a good idea and I heard creators I heard one creator ask their I heard a creator ask their friend like, "I don't know what niche should do. Like what should I 
do?" And I heard the creator tell that other one. They said, "Well, if you weren't creating content, what would you do?" Like what what would you want to do for work? >> Like what would you want your your job to be? Or like dream job that is not like what are you currently doing? Um, and then you 
want to create a content around that that niche. I mean, like Michael Reeves uh is a great channel. He does like engine engineering content creation or he does like he engineers like these really cool things. He doesn't even have like an engineering degree or like learn computer like he learned 
computer science completely by him by himself, but the things he's building are insane. Um, and that's why when I started my channel, I actually started with finance because I of course wanted to do content creation, but um, if it didn't work, I was always just going to be like an investment 
banker. That's what I was going to get into. So, it's like, oh, naturally, you might as well just make content around around that then. Um, but even so, like recently, I do a lot of cooking content because now like I think to myself like if because the answer is different now. Now, if if I wasn't a 
creator, what would I want to do? Like, I would want to have my own restaurant. Like, that would be fun to be cooking. And it's like, oh, just create content around that cuz that's what you have the most fun with. And the reason why I say that is to find a niche and something that you love is 
because when you love something, you're going to keep doing it even if it's not working. >> If you love something so much, you're going to keep doing it even Sorry. If you love something so much, then you're going to keep doing it no matter what. even if it's not working is what I'm trying to say. 
Um yeah. Yeah. I mean that's why I tried so many side hustles um back then when I wanted to like I wanted I wanted to be this entrepreneur and start a bunch of businesses. Um and I would always do all these different things. I would try dropshipping. I tried like uh coding. I tried creating 
websites. I tried doing all these different things. But none of it worked because I would always quit one to two weeks in. But YouTube worked because I did it for over a year without it even working. >> Wow. Yeah, that's persistence. How do you feel about not being an investment banker? >> Oh, I'm 
so glad. I'm so glad. I don't even know why I studied like Well, I guess finance is a good uh thing to study, but it's funny because I'm not even passionate about it anymore. Now it's like I just love content creation. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That would be so funny to imagine you right now in some 
office. >> Yeah. But I guess it I guess it worked out though because it's it's very important with this this type of career to know how to manage your money and uh be responsible with your investments. >> True. And last question, what's next for you? What let's say where do you want to what is your 
big goal in the future? >> I have a lot of goals. So, I want to have my company be worth $100 million, but I also want to do that in a way that I am enjoying and I'm enjoying the process, having fun, and I'm also happy with the way I did it because I can easily sell out and do a bunch of 
sponsorships that I don't want to do. Like I mean I could do a uh you know those gambling websites like oh those people get paid so much whenever they promote that. I I could do that if I wanted to. I'm not going to do that. So I I want to get my company worth um $100 million and I want to do it 
through a way where I am actually helping people because at the end of the day you get paid like any person the reason that every single person gets paid is because they are providing some sort of value. If you're not providing value, then you are not going to make money unless you're just robbing. 
Like you like it doesn't matter who you are, you get paid because you're providing some sort of value or service. So, um yeah, and the biggest thing that I'm genuinely passionate about and I'm trying to work into my content is just healthier living in every facet. So healthier like eating healthier 
or getting active is directly but also healthier living in the sense of being nice to your community, spending time with your friends and family. Uh being conscious about your money and and making sure that you are um saving it and not wasting it. So that is something I want to I want to do. I want 
to encourage kids to have a a good healthy lifestyle. >> Beautiful. Jenny, just one follow-up question. this. Why 100 million? >> Yeah. Um, that's a good question. I guess it's not because I need $100 million. Um, I don't even like I don't even buy anything. Like I don't even have the desire to 
have anything like that. I just want to know that like I can do it. Like it's it's uh it's a huge accomplishment. Um, but I know money isn't isn't isn't everything. I just want to know that I'm able to like my business skills are able to do something uh able to get there. >> Beautiful. Jenny, thank 
you so much. It has been absolute privilege having you here and yeah, super excited to see the progress over the next few months, years. And anyone who hasn't checked out Jenny's content yet, it's absolutely crazy. She's really the master when it comes to storytelling. Um, Jenny, is there anything 
else that you would like to share that how people can find you, what they should check out? >> Yeah. So, if you want to check out my content, I'm on YouTube, jenny hoyos. And if you have any questions or want to work together, just email teamjennyhoyos.com. I'll be responding directly. Typically, 
what I encourage people is to let me know about where you're currently at in your journey and where you're trying to get because I offer a bunch of different services or sometimes if you just have a small question, I'll just go ahead and answer it. Um, so let me know like what you what you guys 
need or are struggling with and I'm happy to help. >> Wonderful. Thank you so much. >> Yeah, thank you for having me.