When I met GoPro, it was Nick Woodman. His product was in surf shops and ski shops, but it wasn't in mainstream world. So, what we did was I I wrote a half hour infomercial that got us from 600,000 to 6 million in the first year. And really what got us from 6 million to 16 million the next year was the customers started selling the product on our behalf. And so suddenly we had 100,000 commercials running that we didn't have to make. It was clever. >> I love it. Like I would have never come up with that idea and I've got a decent amount of context in marketing. How do you come up with campaigns like that? >> When advertising works really well, you're not selling a product to a customer. You're selling an identity to a customer. So, in GoPro, we didn't sell cameras. We sold bravery. That's why the product was called Hero. And all of the footage was audacious sports things that you wish you were doing. And if you could do them, you were about to go buy a camera to put them on the internet. So, if you could surf that well or ride a motocross bike or jump off a hill skiing, you now have to have the camera. What was that thing that you really had to learn that maybe copyriters don't even get to learn the same way when they learn copyrightiting? >> I've never taken a copywriting class in my life. I wrote 10 or 20 movies before I wrote my first ad. What's the difference between these? Well, it's the same thing in a different format. The first time I got a call from from Kennedy and Spielberg, they said, "How do you do this?" And I said, "I sit down and I know the character and I know where I want them to go. Like I know the beginning and the end, but I don't know the middle. and by the end I have a movie like flow state is magic. It's just we don't opt into it and it's completely accessible to all of us all the time and most people watching this probably don't realize the marketing potential that they have. I've sold literally billions of dollars in cooking appliances because I am generally in that state most of the time. It's that or it's rest. >> You know with AI now it does seem to make more sense that you need to become someone who takes the lead in the marketing department beyond just the writing of copy. What do you usually recommend people do to you know go from just being the copywriter to the next step? >> My goal for copywriters is to one make them better at their craft so they get higher responsibilities and higher paychecks and they move up the chain from copywriter to creative to creative director and ultimately creative strategist. AI is eating copywriters for lunch. If you want to make a good living at this industry, you can. you have to move up and get into the strategy position and the things that we've been talking about on this call. That has to become second nature thinking to you. If it is second nature thinking, you're going to have not only have a good job, you're going to have a great job because you're going to have a skill that people really, really need. And if you're a person who watches this and you go, "Well, that sounds like a lot of work." You're right. Then don't do it. >> All right. So, today I'm here with a special guest, Ron Lynch. Thank you so much for joining me. >> Thank you for having me. Yeah, I'm really I'm very curious about all the things that you've been up to over the last uh you know last few years, but also how you you know built your career because I have copyrighters that I coach that have only said good things and they say that many of them have actually learned a lot from you and they say that you know you're one of the the people that helped them advance their career the most. Um, and yeah, I've got a lot of things I'm also working on in my own business right now that uh that uh yeah, I think that some of the things I want to ask you today and be probably applying to my own business as well. So, thanks for coming. >> Good. I take in a lot of copywriters and do a lot of training. My goal for copywriters is to one make them better at their craft, but two expand their craft so they get higher responsibilities and higher paychecks and they move up the chain from copywriter to creative to creative director and ultimately a creative strategist >> on their way to hopefully being a CMO or launching their own business. that career path particularly I always find that um there are quite a few gurus that teach an ascension path like to go to becoming a CMO but there are very few that are actually like competent um coaches like yourself that can actually do the full stack training on being a CMO you know so what is the what does that path look like for copyriters because for me I've often coached copers in building more of a freelance business but as the market has become more and more uh you know with AI now and like how people can build like optimized small pod teams it does seem to make more sense that you need to become more of a creator strategist or someone who takes the lead in the marketing department beyond just the writing of copy. >> Yeah. One of the the great gaps that people have is they see it as an advertising path and a language path and that that is one of the paths, but it's actually a multi-disciplined art when you get to the top. So, um I'll take copywriters and one of the things I encourage I teach a screenwriting course. Most copywriters learn to learn in learn to write in one powerful voice. But if you can become a screenwriter, you can you learn to write in multiple voices. And a really excellent copywriter can put on a different identity and personality and write from different perspectives. And so that's the first on the creative side, but on the on the management side, most of them take no business classes and have no business acumen whatsoever. And I'm a former CEO of a grocery company. So understanding sales mix, margin, all of the things that um go into actually running a company that's required to be a good CMO. You have to understand labor. You have to understand supply chain. And those are things that are completely foreign words to most copywriters. So I I have programs where I teach the business side of the business to people. So when you step in as the head of a department doing creative, you understand the business mechanics of what actually needs to be executed. Um it's kind of like saying it's if you got married and you said, "Oh, my wife runs a household, but she has no idea about money." You're going to have a marriage where she's spending money like crazy and you're pulling your hair out. She has to understand money. And so as a couple, you get together and understand money. Well, that's this is a very similar thing. You have to understand both sides of business to escalate your career and get get that personal revenue. >> I've become a better writer ever since I started running my own coaching business because I understand what the founders's experiences are. You know, I understand that you're not just carrying all these different hats. Like actually, perfect example, recently there's a cop I'm coaching and he was getting a little bit impatient that his client is is slow to respond. And to me, it's like, well, yeah, because you're talking to the CEO and he hasn't put a marketing manager in place to run that department, so he's clearly been pulled into something else. And I wouldn't think too hard on it. But, um, I would consider whether or not you actually want to be in that in that role. Maybe it makes more sense that you have more of a leadership role than just taking orders in that position because they don't have a marketing manager. >> Yeah. It's having the moxy there to go and design the job and say, "Hey, let me step in and go, hey, let me you don't have a role here. Let me design that role. charge appropriately and do it. And I think that that 50% of my practice now is I coach CEOs and I teach them how to invert their companies because most companies start as a pyramid with a pharaoh on top as the king. And a successful company inverts at some point and the leader only makes two types of decisions. Creative decisions no one else has the permission to make and financial decisions no one else has the power to make. And so if you build your organization correctly over time, you have people in place that are kind of like a pinball machine that stop the ball before it comes to you. 80% of the stuff in your company, if you're running it really well, you should never hear about that. You should have adequate coverage in the company that takes care of 80% of your problems, maybe 90%. And as the leader, you only have to do a few things. That's how really good operators can own four or five companies. That's very interesting because when I I was actually having a team meeting um six months ago and we were like busy building sort of an an org chart just sort of like a dis discussions of like who directly reports to everybody and I didn't really like this sort of pyramid thing where like I felt like I was at the top and I did have an idea. I was like I wonder if I should invert it but I just felt like it was I'd never seen anybody really do that in my direct experience is like invert the actual um hierarchy. That's a very good instinct you have. I invert that. I do that all the time. I guess guess what's at the very top then at the widest part. >> It's the team that executes that you serve or the customer. >> A customer. >> Yeah. >> Cuz you're playing defense. Defense wins championships. Starts with customers, then customer service, then fulfillment, then you get into logistics and all the management. >> Yeah. Because to me, I see myself as like a strategic coach or like a coach on the bench as the as the leader. I'm not exactly, you know, I'm not always doing the execution, but huh, creative decisions that nobody else has the authority to make. That's really good. >> And then financial decisions no one else has the power to make. >> So, it's two flippers. It's a gigantic pinball machine with bumpers that stop you that are your CMO, your CFO, and your operations director. And then all of their people go above that. So when it came to GoPro, >> when you helped them scale, did you bring in a lot of this or or was it mostly the marketing campaign or like what was the journey to take them from where they were to? >> When I met GoPro, it was Nick Woodman and his girlfriend who's now been his wife for 20 years. Um, believe it or not, that's been it's been 19 years since we did since we started that. and his dad who was the uh managed the funding of it. His dad ran a fund venture capital fund and he slowly brought in people. So um I met Nick at the Salt Lake City Outdoorsman show. My um business operations manager at the time, new business development guy, Tim O'Brien was a mountain climber and he went to those kind of shows. So it was all outdoor gear and he called me goes, "You got to come see this guy." So, I flew to Salt Lake City and about 1:00 in the afternoon, Nick jumped out of a van that was in the middle of his trade show booth that was it was the thing that he drove to the trade show booth and it had surfboards and skis and all TVs and all this stuff and uh met Nick and he said, "I want to do direct response television." And we had a long storyried career in direct response television at that point. And he um said, "I want to do an infomercial." And so it took us about six months to kind of get the wheels underneath us. But at that point he had his product was in surf shops and ski shops, but it wasn't in mainstream in the mainstream world. And the product was pretty um inferior, but the mounts were great. And so over the years, the the product got better and better and better. So what we did was I I wrote a half hour infomercial, sent it to him and he called me at 9 in the morning and like after I'd finished it and he he said, "I I decided I want to do short form instead of long form." We had all of our contracts in place and everything. I said, "Great. Just take the staple out of the out of the script I sent you cuz we'll just take the 30 pages and make spots instead." So that's what we did. And we made 12 spots, I think, and they went on different networks. So we paired you know the internet was burgeoning then Facebook and YouTube were really uh in their very nent stages and we utilized 12 spots in sports that matched media. So we would have um spots about um skiing on the ski channel and car racing on the velocity network and lifestyle things on the Oprah network. And the you may remember the first campaigns were uh for the first seven eight years the entire campaign was every day we give away a free suite of our products go online to to win. So what was happening is people were going online based on the media they either saw online or on television and they would let get on the landing page and they would enter a contest to win a free product. Once they put their data in, then they could get to the site. And once they got to the site, they realized, oh, this isn't just for skiers. It's for all these sports. I'll never win this contest. But they had a great desire for the product then. So they bought. And so that got us from 600,000 to 6 million in the first year. And really what got us from 6 million to 16 million the next year was all of these customers downloading the software and uploading their movies to Facebook and YouTube. And we made background music available to them free of license and we allowed them to get the handles of their of the commercials that we ran. So at the beginning there was a GoPro camera and at the end there was the contest mechanism. You could download those, make your own GoPro commercial of your own footage, put licensed music in it, and you could broad that broadcast that. And so suddenly we had 100,000 commercials running that we didn't have to make. So the customers started selling the product on our behalf. >> And that was because if they won, they get they they win the competition if they do that if they do that material. >> They did give away a product every day, but that's only 365 products a year. And there were hundreds of thousands of people coming to enter the contest. So, you're probably not old enough, but when I was a kid, they used to have contests on the back of cereal boxes, and you'd cut the back of the cereal box off, and you'd fill out a contest, and you'd >> try to win a go-kart or something or a bicycle. And then, you know, a kid's nature is to wait by the mailbox every day to find out whether he won. And your mom eventually says, "Honey, everybody enters the contest. There's a a million entries." and your parents have to explain to you that the odds of you winning something are like infantessimal. So it's that same type of thinking that we learned as a child. So you go and you realize, oh god, everybody and their brothers entered this contest. I'll never win it. I have to buy the product because I really want it. So they would just buy the product. So they did they did genuinely give away a product every day. But it was super cheap advertising to give away one $300 camera when you were giving it away at the cost of goods which was not 300 bucks. Right. >> So So to me, right, I'm thinking about this kind of campaign right now and I'm just putting myself in in let's say I was in your shoes back then coming up with the campaign based on what I know. I don't think I would have ever come up with something like that because to me it just feels uh it feels that's unknown to me. all of that that whole world is very very unknown. So it's like how do you actually could that surprises me like I would have never come up with that idea and I've got a decent amount of context in marketing. So what's the um what are the principles that uh or or or how do you how do you come up with campaigns like that in you know in the first place where cuz to me it feels a bit nuanced you know it feels like something that uh yeah like that just sounds very unique. It sounds like a very innovative way to run >> that type of marketing has gone on forever and it still goes on. So think about you've probably been invited to go on a free vacation for a weekend and you've had you have to listen to the pitch for the vacation company. come to Puerto Rico for the weekend or come to San Diego for the weekend and you you get you and your spouse get >> a three-day weekend on us at the resort, but you have to sit through our two-hour presentation on joining our vacation club or our time share. It's it's a similar type of thing. So, I'm going to back you up to the first thing you said was, "I would never have come up with a campaign like that." >> That's absolutely correct. As long as you hold that thought, I will say you're correct. You will never come up with that as long as you say I can never do that because you've now turned off a filter of acceptance in your mind. All great art comes from beyond. So you're just saying don't give it to me. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So you have to say I absolutely could come up with that if I was open to it. Oh, now you've turned the filter on. Now you can, now you're receptive to what is the most innovative thing I could do that would encourage my customers to become my salespeople. Most people enter a business and they go, >> I need to I need to figure out how much it costs to acquire a customer. What's my cost of acquisition? And a great business goes one step further and says it's not about my cost of acquisition. I want to get my cost of acquisition to zero. How do I come up with such a campaign that my customers readvertise and become my media channel for free? What can I give them in the innovation that I deliver that they must So I'll give you an example of um some of these come from our government. Pokemon Go. >> Yeah. I like I like it. >> Okay. You know what Pokémon Go is? Do you know where Pokemon Go came from? >> It's the one where you walk around, right? And you go and collect stuff in in the environment, right? >> Sure. With with with your camera. Where did that come from? >> I don't know. >> Okay. So when Google first started Google Earth, Google didn't have any satellites. So they went to the government and created a contract and they created a company that allowed Google Earth access to satellite footage from government satellites. >> And the government suddenly had access to who's looking at what. You're looking at through Google Earth at the Earth, but they're also looking at the IP address of people that are curious about different places. >> Okay? Okay. So now you get the intelligence community involved and they're like, "Hey, we're now looking, we get to see people who are looking at very unusual things." So they then have an algorithm for security purposes that who are these people looking at Area 51 or nuclear facilities or why are people looking at what's your search criteria? So because Google gets the data, right? >> So they come up with this great idea. There's all these places that Google can't photograph with their cars. What if we gified that and got the public to go take all of the f pictures of the stairwells and hallways and buildings and alleyways and parks where we can't drive a Google car and get images? >> No. Pokemon Go. >> Pokemon Go. >> Ah, I see. Interesting. Yeah. >> It's I mean, but if you think of it, you're just outsourcing. You're in enrolling and gamifying something to get an audience to do. That's really a form of marketing. >> Pokemon Go is a marketing program to get the get citizens and kids and people to actively go collect security data from the NSA and most people would like that would never cross your mind. But you have to start thinking like that. >> It does require you to zoom out. I think for sure like in my industry I've definitely been very very you know focused in in direct response copy for internet marketing businesses e-commerce info software this is this is marketing you know this there's like that's a little pond and uh you know having conversations like this one and a few other conversations I've had recently and starting to broaden that horizon and starting to see how you know all the stuff is all one big you know the application is so much so much bigger and I think this is really good for copyrighters as well because a lot of copy operators these days, the newer copyriters, they think that the market's shrinking, they they've they've said that it's competitive, it's too competitive, or that there no more email copyrighting gigs. I think it's I think it's that, right? >> Let me ask you a pointed question then. What's the difference between advertising and marketing? You know, I've always seen it as marketing as, and again, like this is not maybe the the the definition based on the books, but my my experience I've always found is advertising is how do you get in front of the right people and marketing is more about the education of that audience to present them something in in like it's it's um you know, let's call it like belief shift work or or like shifting people's perspectives on giving them the certain perception that you want of the brand. Whereas advertising is how do we get this in front of enough people? >> I would agree fundamentally that's that that's a pretty good definition that fund fundamentally advertising is my communications directly with audience members I'm trying to attract. Marketing is actually their conversation. It's me influencing their conversation. I'll give you a really simple example. >> I like that. >> Um I'm a radio station and I want you to listen to my radio station. But how do I get you to walk? Like how do I get you to listen to a radio station that you're not listening to? Maybe I put bumper stickers on cars or I put a a billboard up in town. It's how do I attract you? Because I can't run my radio station advertisement on another radio station. They won't do it. Okay. There's another way that that in the 70s and 80s that radio stations used to they would have events. They would sponsor a concert or an event or they would have these contests like mystery contests of we've hidden $10,000 in your city and every day at 2:00 we're going to give you one more clue. >> I like that. That's cool. >> So $10,000 is an advertising budget, right? And you start to have this thing where you're driving people to your station to get the next clue for 60 days. And you make the clues less obscure over time. So somebody actually wins and you can make a big deal about it. But everybody has to tune in to a radio station because it's there spoilage, right? That it goes away. At 2:00, you got to be listening to my radio station to get the clue. And then people are talking about it at work now. Oh, are you getting the clues? Did you know they're giving away the money? Now I've embedded myself in their conversation and they're now advertising between their friends at the water cooler or work. Now I now I've captured a conversation. I've infected them. Now they're advertising my radio station. That's marketing. >> Interesting. Because the model I've always seen is it's kind of like you got advertising here, then you have marketing, and then you have sales, and then you have like client success. But this model almost feels like you put marketing after client success in a sense. There's like an aspect of marketing that goes goes beyond that is that you turn the customer into the marketing like you were saying. But yeah. Yeah. Interesting. I like this. >> And when advertising works really well, you're not selling a product to a customer. You're selling an identity to a customer. >> So in GoPro, we didn't sell cameras. >> We sold bravery. That's why the product was called Hero. And all of the footage was audacious sports things that you wish you were doing. And if you could do them, you were about to go buy a camera to put them on the internet. Cuz if you could surf that well or ride a motocross bike or jump off a hill skiing, you're you now have to have the camera because you have because that picture's worth a thousand words, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Like we sold badasserie. So, in what you're doing, I would sit down with you and go, let's just establish what's the ideal identity shift we want this person to make. Because if they make that identity shift, then they're going to start advertising the product and telling people cuz you have social media and you you could go through your friends list and you could go, "Oh yeah, that's that's the yoga lady who does the woo woo and she does the crystals and the beads and the and her personality is defined by five or six things and products." And then there's the other friend who's like, "Oh, that's the music guy who drives a Subaru and has a drinks the coffee and he loves micro beers." These people are utilizing five or six products to define themselves to give themselves identity to stand out and that's what social media has trained them to do. So what do you have that's your personality? Like in the context of with my coaching business for example >> with your coaching business or the game that you're building or whatever whatever you're doing >> let's use coaching let's say chess I like chess >> so what when you project I play chess what does that piece of information tell people >> I would I would say that it's somebody that thinks carefully about things somebody that's strategic somebody that that um has an intention behind what he I'd say these are some things that I resonate with. >> Yeah. You're telling people you're a deep thinker and you're strategic. You're telling people you're smart. Really smart people love chess. It's just a very simple way to project to communicate. So you're that also tells people a couple of things personalitywise. Don't don't try to screw me over because I'm smart. I see things coming. Oh, so there's a defensive posture to that. And then there's and also an aggressive posture that you should probably work for with me because I'm thinking four steps ahead. Are you used to thinking four or five steps ahead? So there's there's an identity piece to chess that you're promoting just by saying I play chess a lot. And you don't have to like you don't have to say anything aggressive or passive or anything. You just you you just lay the chess board out there with you thinking it's like oh he's one of them. M so if there's let's say like the video game for example and for anybody listening to this that doesn't know I'm busy working on a project behind the scenes that's a video game that uh I've been wanting to develop for a few few few years and finally came up with an idea that feels very innovative for the space. So with that kind of community, what what kind of principles would you would you say then are we thinking about in terms of like identity? Like I'm thinking now with gamers, right? Like what is the identity that they want to hold to, you know, maybe that's is that part of it? Is it like an identity that they want that you're basically giving them like you're enabling for them or are you shifting the identity or or how do you go about that? Usually >> I would typically start with the innovation and go I I wouldn't go like I wouldn't go make a mouseetp for architects but if I designed the most gorgeous mousetrap that was completely innovative architects would find it right >> okay >> so I go it's about the innovation and once you have the innovation and the story because a video game is about story it's about journey so the what's the difference between Mario Brothers and The Legend of Zelda? Graphics, you're kind of doing the same thing. You're jumping, moving, going through a world. >> And then there's World of Warcraft versus um the what's the car chase one that been famous for 100 years? The violent one. >> Violent one. Grand Theft Auto. >> Grand Theft Auto. Yeah. Like Okay. what what's the difference between these? Well, it's the same thing in a different format. So, you go, okay, what's the adventure I'm going to take them on? >> Design that and then go, who would want this? I'll give you an example of something early in my career that didn't that we thought went was going to go one way and it went the other way. And that was the George Foreman grill. >> And when the George Foreman grill came out, the agency that I worked for back then, the I was not there when they launched it. I was there after, but I'm telling you the story in retrospect. They thought that this would be great for families, like a person, a mom cooking, this is going to make dinner faster. And they designed the marketing to go around that. What they found was that was a pretty weak audience in where the actual sales were coming from, and they had to go back and rethink it because it was coming from people that were in apartments that didn't want to turn on the stove and wanted to eat quick. So it was a lot of single people and it was elderly people who didn't want to turn on a stove and didn't want to make a mess and eat quick which is not families. So it was the antithesis of families. And so once that was discovered then it became where I normally would start with food and recipes. >> So if I'm if I'm selling a cooking appliance and I've sold literally billions of dollars in cooking appliances, I always start with great food, not with the great appliance. So, I figure out what are the best coolest things I can make with this appliance. And then I make those things and it's a cooking show. And the way that you get the things that I'm cooking is by the appliance. >> Yeah. >> It's never buy the appliance to make this. It's you want to make this. Oh, you need the appliance to do it. >> That makes a lot of sense. I like that a lot. >> So, you're selling transformation in the results. >> So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org and uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. So, I'll have to develop the the product and think about what makes it um an amazing experience and then from there reverse engineer which kind of people would really resonate with this experience. A lot of the time with what I've done in in in my you know short time I've been in the space which is what like eight or nine years now. Um I've often found myself working with businesses I really like and I would often project what I want onto the marketing and onto the product. And then I ended up finding that the best clients I've always worked with were the ones where I was the the the customer fundament like I would have bought that product and then it's a lot easier to just build from there. So >> so here's a here's a thought to to drive you back into this. Imagine that we're working on an advertising campaign for a vacation destination that's sunny. Say it's the Bahamas or it's Jamaica or it's Hawaii or it's Asia. Nine out of 10 agency campaigns would show the unique features, the location. They'd show the pool. They'd show the bar. They'd show the they would show the happy couple in the wind blowing them. Right? I would go, my campaigns would be like, find your inner Jamaican, find your inner Hawaiian. I would sell the identity of going to the place because you know that when you actually go to a place on vacation, you assume the identity of the of the local flavor and you're trying to become a Bahamian or a a Jamaican or a Hawaiian while you're there. That's what you're going. That's actually what you experience when you go there. So, I would sell the experience of that identity and how well they fit in with the locals and the population and how fun that is in amongst the pool and the bar and the wind. Does that make sense? >> That does make sense. It's like I think of the Coca-Cola campaign. There's always people playing soccer in South Africa. Whenever Coca-Cola has a campaign, it's always like sporty people going for a refreshment after their soccer game. That's that's always been the commercial ads I've seen here. So, I'm just thinking if there's like an identity built into that. It's like, yeah, soccer players drink Coca-Cola. >> It's been associated with en energy and health and victory and excitement. Cuz what do Coca-Cas really do? What do Coca-Cola drinkers really do? They sit on couches and get fat. They're fat people on couches. So, you have to advertise counter to that. Oh, no, no, no. the real thing. It's life. All think of all the things Coca-Cola has sold as slogans over the year. They've never sold it's sugar water that makes you fat. Has never said, "Hey, it's liquid diabetes." >> Yeah. >> They sell identity. Coke is it. >> It's interesting. There was actually advertising the other day here as well in South Africa where um there was a lady that was um yeah she was like considerably overweight and she was busy um taking this some sort of um I think it was some sort of supplement or some sort of skin skin cream or something. It wasn't like very heavy American direct response. It was sort of I thought it was a pretty average ad. But somebody asked me like why is she so why is she so overweight in the ad? This is like, don't you want to have somebody represent the product differently? It's like, no, because this is the audience. This is the people buying it. She she's representing the people that they're targeting cuz that's the person that tends to buy it. Well, the world is full of people that are overweight. So, there's like it's not an unusual thing. If it was 1965 and it was because people were a lot thinner then. We didn't have the abundance and the sedentary lifestyle. So somebody who was a little overweight then right now it's just normal >> and somebody who was obese then stood out. That was very unusual. Like when I was a little kid I'm 60 years old so that's a long time ago right? When I was a little kid if there was a fat lady in church everybody knew there was you like she stood out. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But now it's 50% of the audience. It's normal. M >> probably get all kinds of hate for me saying that, but it's just just I'm just telling this this is the way the world is. >> So, it's kind of interesting how it's gone full circle for me in the last few years now cuz I started with just pure email copyrightiting, just direct response, textbased emails, no design. Then I found myself getting into ad ads on Facebook and compliance. And then I found myself writing more long form. And now the skill has evolved to the point where it's really mostly like I'm finding most of the time it's creative strategy. even if you want to give it that label depending on people struggling with different definitions of it. But what I'm seeing it as is is like sort of like a script writer like screen writer like you're busy designing video you're designing video marketing and it's cool to get to that point because you know I think that those skills serve me in the in the earlier part of my career. But I like the fact that most of the marketing I'm seeing for copyriters is all going into that same direction. So, you've done a lot of uh work over the years before uh all these ecom companies blew up with video marketing. That like also sets you up as a as the expert on this, too. >> I wrote 10 or 20 movies before I wrote my first ad. I was a screenwriter. >> Yeah, I love it. >> I I knew how to write in voice and in story. I I didn't I've never taken a copywriting class in my life. I've never >> I just started writing screenplays, but I had good response from the film world and sold screenplays and I I had great adviserss and like I very early on in my career met Kathleen Kennedy and Steven Spielberg who are extremely personally encouraging to me and you know you have people like that read your stuff and go this is great. This makes it easier to get on the bike the next day and write some more. And so I think that you're you're on to something there is you start in that learning to write in voices which most copywriters don't. They they they struggle to find their own voice and then they make some money at that and then they go deeper >> and then they find a client and they go, "Oh, how do I write in the client's voice?" >> But the trick is actually to write in the customer's voice because you're trying to get in their head. How do I write inside the head of the person who will be receiving this? Oh, that's really good. I love that. I'm going to write a ton. >> When you're writing, say you have, you know, there's a lot of people right now that are writing for doctors and, you know, professional people that are, you know, generating revenue on Facebook and they try to write in the doctor's voice to have to establish authority. Well, what if I assumed I had that authority and I was writing in the doctor's voice as if he was actually talking to a patient? So, how does a how does a chess player talk to a checkers player >> to get them information and to level up so they don't feel intimidated or talked down to or belittled, but they feel encouraged? How would my professional talk to somebody with just the edge of authority, but the compassion and empathy to get them to make the decisions? And so, I tell in my content I have a lot of metaphors Because a smart person takes a complicated idea and brings it into metaphor form for a person outside to get in like that's what all the famous podcasters and scientists do online. That's what Jordan Peterson does. He takes very highlevel things and he goes, "Well, let me tell you." And he boils it down. >> Yeah. >> To a simple story and you go, "Oh, I get it." >> Oh, it is like an a camel through the eye of the needle. like that it's metaphors. That's that's what Jesus spoken was simple metaphor so people would get it. That's when you become excellent. Now strategist is I'm going to write a Bible. I understand how the whole crowd works. I understand the crowd is parsed of different types of people. So I'm going to make specific content for people who need these benefits even though we have these benefits. So I'm going to pick three benefits and one audience and focus on their pain and solution. And I'm going to do that 10 times with 10 different audiences. And all of those are going to connect under a brand story. And all all roads lead to Rome. I come to the ultimate solution. And I might have three different offers to match the their personal economics. That's what a strategist does. So when I see these young people saying that that I know our copywriters saying, "Well, I'm a strategist because they like the paycheck of strategists." I'm like, "Hold on a >> before before we climb to the four meter board here, let's let's let's take some interstitial steps in your career to get you the training so you can actually do what you're claiming you would like to do, >> right? Because there's definitely many copyriters that they think strategy means um looking at looking at existing campaign data and deciding which winners were the winners and then writing more like that. >> That's copywriting. >> That's copywriting. Yeah, >> that's just copywriting. >> Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Huh. So, so I'd love to go deeper on this, but I'm I'm so curious like what pulled you what pulled you into direct response and copyrightiting when you were doing screenwriting? >> Um, screenwriting is you're 100% the the product creator and the idea creator and you have to sell them and it's Hollywood. It's a very arduous process. >> Copywriting is the greatest hijack ever. You take that skill and you find somebody who's already got a product that's proven in an audience and all they're doing is trying to scale. So, I just have to identify the companies that have good products and go, "Would you like my skill set?" And they go, "Well, I can't afford your skill set." And I'm like, "Yeah, actually you can. I'll do it for this and a little royalty." >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And they go, "Okay." And they make $100 million and I make two. And I'm happy with that. So it was a very easy transition because the economics are much better than the economics of screenwriting. >> What was the most challenging part of screenwriting? Like what was the what was the aspect of writing or ideation or or or structure? Yeah. Like what was that thing that you really had to learn that maybe copyriters don't even get to learn the same way when they when they learn copyrightiting. >> It's funny. I no offense, but it goes back to your first comment of I I've never done that. I couldn't do that. I couldn't come up with that idea. >> I don't I don't approach it the way you just approached the question. There's nothing problematic about screenwriting. I'm open to it. >> Ah, I see. Okay. Yeah. >> I have a stack, and I'm not kidding you. I have a stack of 40 unwritten screenplays that are outlined just cuz I haven't had the time to write them. And I have 20 that are written. So, there's absolutely nothing problematic about I love writing screenplays. I love the the telling of stories and the the manufacturing of stories. I and this I teach this in my screenwriting class is from God's perspective, this world is complete. God lives outside of time. So all of the movies have been made and he has seen them all. And if you open yourself up to receiving one of those movies and you sit down to start to write one, you see it. And this is the process. This is what the first time I got a call from from Kennedy and Spielberg, they said, "How do you do this?" And I said, "I sit down and I know the character and I know where I want him to go." Like, I know the beginning and the end, but I don't know the middle. And so, I start writing and I the screen pops up to the left above my eye and the movie's there. And I take dictation and then a character actor walks in. I'm like, "Oh, that guy's in this movie or that gal's in this movie." and people enter and I just write down what happens and they say what they say and by the end I have a movie and I'm not writing the movie I'm watching the movie taking notes on the movie so the movie the movie's already written someplace >> it's that you have to have the courage to step in and say I'll receive the written movie and then write that movie >> because I was going to ask you what's your favorite part or like what's the most fun part of of script writing screenwriting would you say it's that that experience just being in it being being in the entire experience. >> Yeah. Being in being in flow state is is that's that's my favorite part of surfing and powder skiing and hiking and being in cooking like flow state is magic and it's completely accessible to all of us all the time. >> It's just we don't opt into it and it fascinates me that people don't. I enjoy the hell out of my life because I'm generally in that state most of the time. >> It's that or it's rest. >> Yeah. I noticed in this conversation like the two times that you pointed out that there was a story I was telling myself that was holding me back from, you know, being able to receive the the idea or the inspiration or the ability to do something. How do you go about I mean this is definitely something I've I've found with my career and other copers is there's lots of stories. I think everybody tells we we all tell ourselves stories that might not actually be aligned with what we want to achieve in life. Like how do you go about identifying them or like do you Yeah. Like what is your what is your process or how do you how do you think about rewriting the stories that hold you back? >> I have phrases that occasionally come up but I'm very well practiced at it now at my age. >> So >> one of my favorite phrases is with risk comes reward. So if I find something that's a risk, I'm going to take a serious look at it. The other phrase is I can't. If I hear an I can't, that's an alarm bell to me. So one of my first successes was a friend of mine asked me if I wanted to go audition in a movie and I was in college. I was like, "Yeah, I want to get out of class today." So I I went and auditioned for the movie and I went in the in a car with two actors and I was not an actor. At least I didn't fashion myself one. Although I took a, you know, drama class in college and I went and I got a lead role in a movie that a major director was directing and I got a SAG card and I ended up going and working on this movie for a month and I was hanging out with movie stars and you know all of that stuff that goes along with that. And I realized that from the very first time the guy said, "Would you like to go audition for a movie?" I didn't I never went through the thought process of I can't oh I can't be in a movie or they won't pick me. I my mind went to wouldn't it be cool if they did. >> Yeah. >> And so I went to the audition and I got called in and I was with two other guys and three of us were sitting in chairs and I had a very long hair at that point. when I was, you know, 20 years old, I think, and I had sunglasses on and I had a ponytail. And in the middle of the discussion, I took my sunglasses and I put them on backwards on top of my ponytail and then I turned my head towards the casting director and she saw that and she was like, "That guy's a ham." She excused the other two guys. So, I took advantage of the moment to do what a movie star would do. Like, you could see that. Oh, yeah. That's something that Johnny Depp would do, right? We're about the same age. It's like I I instinctively knew how to get the attention and the attention led to the job. The job led to the miracle of, oh, this is my first movie. That led to the SAG card. that led to me writing movies. So I think that in your case to answer your question specifically about you is what it's like you're in a pool and there's water outside and you're in it but it's empty but it's surrounded by water. It's the opportunity is the ocean that surrounds you. And you're standing in a dry pool, but the pool has all these doors in it. >> And I say, "Go over to one of those doors and push push it up. Slide it up like a window. It's going to be hard. The first one, the first screenplay is going to be agonizing. The first audition is going to be agonizing. The first creative brief is going to be agonizing. The first one is always agonizing. But once you get that son of a [ __ ] open, the water starts flooding in. The second one's really easy to do and the third one's even easier and then it becomes part of your identity. Of course, is it easy for me to write 20 screenplays? Yes. Why haven't I written the other 40? Time. >> I just got to get to them. Sooner or later, I'll I'll get to them. And that's it's looking for those I can'tss and I won'tss and going, I'm okay, those have to piss you off. Well, why can't I? M >> you have to have an internal defiance. Otherwise, you're complacent. Otherwise, you're the lady on the couch with a Coke cuz she got there by not getting off the couch and doing anything and taking the comfort. >> Don't have anything to say. I like it. It's very, very good. It's very interesting thinking about it. >> Yeah. Facing your discomfort is some of the best stuff you'll ever do. And doing work where you go, I would I'd like that result, but I there's no way I could do that work. Oh, [ __ ] Yeah, >> pick up the shovel. You definitely can do that. >> There's nothing outside your >> You got the arms, the legs, the brains, and the eyeballs. That's You came here exactly the same way as the other people. You could start playing the violin at your age and five years from now be excellent at the violin. >> Yeah, I definitely believe that a lot of these things in in life that at first are difficult, is just about putting in the reps and the belief that you can do it, you know? So let let's let's circle to the creative strategy again. So we're talking about the different ideas and thank you for this. I appreciate it. It was really really good and I'm taking some notes over here and can implement some of this. So with creative strategy, right, we got the, you know, the different I I don't know how you put it in the words that you put it in, but I just see like the sort of um arch, right, with all the different um profiles of the different people that are going to eventually end up at Yeah. the umbrella, right? So with that, okay. So in in the context of being a creative strategist and and transitioning out of just writing the words and being in the copy side of things, um what would you say then is the is is the goal like for for for those copyriters? And I was talking with Israel Fernandez about this recently and he was mentioning a little bit about the idea that you know you want to become more of a sort of a leader CEO kind of person within their business that becomes like that department almost becomes like a micro business for these ecom founders. Is that sort of the the end goal for creative strategy or not maybe not end goal but just like that's the direction that you're pushing in or or like what's the what's the career like direction that you should go for when you're in creative strategy? That career is the engine of the business. Sales sales is the engine of every business. So it's it's either there's production of innovation. So we have the somebody's got to build the iPhone and it's got to be excellent. Someone's got to deliver it and that and package it and deliver it and that experience has got to be great. Someone's got to sell it and make the promises of th those two that get fulfilled. But the communications like if you're in a law practice, well, what what what produces clients in the law firm? marketing. Everybody who's in a business is first in the marketing business of their business. >> I don't if you're selling soap, you're not in the soap business. You're in the marketing soap business. And if you win that, then you're in the soap business. The soap is the second thing that happens, >> right? >> So to your point of the umbrella is what the strategist does is this is all of the people who could buy it. Here's the pointed messages we could deliver to each one of those groups. Which one has the highest chance of financial success earliest on to get us here for day two to market to the other channels. So the strategist goes, "This is the customer we have to win first because they're more likely to spend and give us success. Here's the second most likely. Here's the third most likely. And here's the offers that match those people." and then backfill to here's the language that gets them here to the purchase. So that that is why the word strategy is deployed there is that it is a financial game as much as it is a creative game. That's why it becomes its own department. That's why to your words it becomes its own business. >> I see because it's got those same two functions that the CEO does which is the authority to make the creative decisions and the financial. Okay. >> Boom. >> Very interesting. I get it. Okay. >> That's why so many CMOs become CEOs of their own products. There's two the two people who become rich >> forget what they ever taught you in college. I mean there's all the technicians, all the doctors in the world that can become rich. >> The two biggest categories of people who become truly wealthy are engineers and marketers. >> Innovation product, building a product and then being in the business of selling innovation. >> Engineers are the number one category of richest people in the world. >> Marketers are the second lawyers and doctors behind that. So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them, and you want to join us, and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry, and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. You know, I was talking to Mark Ford about this in Florida. I interviewed him recently and he said that the the four highest earning skills is is obviously is sales marketing but then he said building building products and when he said building products he added a descriptor to it I think like building um incredible products I think he said something like this building incredible products yeah so that's why I was just thinking that like yeah >> yeah that's where it comes from so I look I I look for really good engineers with really good products because most of them can't sell. >> Yeah. >> Like that's a perfect pairing for me. And most of my career has been with someone who could engineer something great and says, "What do I do with this, Ron?" I'm like, "Just make some more of them. I'll sell them." >> Amazing. Okay. Yeah. So, so, so then as a copywriter, right, because a lot of the a lot of the people watching this, they're going to be thinking because I've been telling um my audience a lot like, hey, go and develop the skills that you need to go and become a creative strategist because this is where the market's going. Everything's moving towards video. Um, people are moving towards um, you know, these businesses online obviously want to lower their cost to acquire customers and that's a lot more than just words, right? So what is that sort of um skill or is there a is it soft skills? Is there a skill that they like learn cuz you know everybody learns from courses right? So like how would you define all these sort of gaps and you know strategy like do they just go close a client and figure it out or what was your what do you usually recommend people do to you know go from just being the copywriter to the next the next step? I didn't have any intention of turning this into a marketing conversation for me, but >> please do. Yeah. >> The people that you've mentioned this call on the this far on the call like Israel Fernandez, these are all graduate students of mine. I teach this and in the course of teaching it, you walk away from the course not with just knowledge but with a portfolio because I have you work on specific products that you either choose or are your clients products and you do all of this creative strategy work and you pull it apart and I help author that with you. I help teaching guide for 13 weeks so you understand how how to pick a product, how to pick a client, how to develop a creative and strategic brief that defines what the magic of the product is, the problem solution, all of the features and benefits, the best potential audiences. Then you go into offers, and then you start writing creatives of different lengths for different forms of media. And we go from short form 30 seconds all the way to half hour marketing programs. Infomercials are essentially VSSLs with three CTAs in it. So you pull the CTAs out and just have the one at the end. So I teach it. Um but I honestly don't know anybody on planet Earth besides me teaching it because I don't know anybody who did it who teaches it. So there's people within my world um that are you know Stan Jacobs and Lenny Lieberman and the guys at Script to Screen and um I'll avoid mentioning a few people that are really good but have sadly passed away in the last few years. There's a generation of dinosaurs like me that have this skill that's very applicable to the internet and to internet marketing and to television marketing all and emails and all of this stuff. But folks, they're not accessible and folks don't know that it's a process. And the dangerous thing is it's so easy to get into online copywriting with no skill whatsoever that it's filled the whole gamut is filled with people that don't even know that this is an option for them or that there is a correct constructive educational path to become to go from what is essentially >> a novice from to journeyman to expert master and get to this and I don't mean to say level like I'm way up here and you're way down there. I'm just saying that I'm a master at it because I've proven it multiple times in multiple businesses and campaigns that I understand how the dynam the entire ecosystem works. >> And most people watching this probably don't realize that there's an ecosystem to them. It's a very linear I'm I I copyright and then I become a better copywriter and they don't realize that that is just one tendril of the marketing potential that they have and they could get from that one tendril into a much bigger capacity and earning power which is like I alluded before we started the call AI is eating copywriters for lunch and they have if you want to make a good living at this industry you can, but you have to move up and get into the strategy position where you understand the economics and all of the audiences and the things that we've been talking about on this call. That has to become second nature thinking to you. It can't be foreign thinking. But if it is second nature thinking, you're going to have not only have a good job, you're going to have a great job because you're going to have a skill that people really, really need. M >> and it's managing multiple AIS and manage and knowing what the data means when you're looking at it. It's it's getting the skill set. And if you're a person who watches this and you go, "Well, that sounds like a lot of work." You're right. Then don't do it. It's like saying, "Oh, it sounds like a lot of work to write a movie." Well, it is. Then don't. >> Yeah. >> You just opted out. Go serve martinis. I'll be ordering them. Israel said that your work is very challenging like you you don't uh you know you you hold them to a standard which I think is really good. >> I think that it's people don't know that there should be a standard >> and I think that's why they say I hold them to a standard and it's good is holding to them to a standard makes them aware there is a standard and once you realize there is a standard then you realize there's a method and then you realize there's expertise. So when you step into that and go, I'll hold the standard. Now you're moving to become expert. So of course they love to be held to it. It makes them better. It's like a sport. If you're if you have a great soccer coach, you become a great soccer player. He holds you to a different standard. He lets you know that you're capable of doing more than you even thought you were capable of. >> Lots of lots of takeaways today. I'm having a great time. Thank you. >> Thanks for asking. I think they're good questions. And I think I'm trying to pack I know it's a lot, but I'm trying to pack a lot in so that >> this is rich in information for the the listener that maybe they go back and listen twice or they read a transcript and they go, >> "This is actually I'm actually listening to a person who has done it and knows what they're talking about. This is not a [ __ ] artist." >> I think it's very very rare actually nowadays. I mean I I would by no means say that I'm you know I mean I've been able to coach a lot of copyriters and take them from the beginning of their journey maybe to the intermediate level you know but the people I learned from I I'm very grateful for because you know my my copy mentor he was coached directly by a guy that was coached directly by you know the Gary Halbert Gary Halbert and his mentees. So I got the sort of apprenticeship style coaching. It was very onetoone and direct and I don't see that in the space anymore. You know I don't really back in 2017 I saw a lot more of it and I don't actually see many people doing that. A lot of the copy gurus out there it's a lot of information products that have been rebundled and maybe AI is actually extrapolated one small concept into like applications the AI based. And so I just I just really wonder and I think we're talking about this just a little bit before the call as well. the future. >> That's why I do it the way that I do it is that it's it is a craft and you do need to find a master craftsman and learn it and get your stuff critiqued >> and their awareness and eyeballs on it. it can't be done like my my course certainly is automatically delivered and the information is uniform but your involvement in it and coming back to me is your input and then I respond to that input and help you go okay I see what you crafted there like it's pottery or it's jewel cutting but you need to cut that edge off there and polish here and dig in a little more there and see what you've done there and that that kind of feedback from someone who's at a level makes you infinitely better. And I know that's a fact because I have I have students that I started with 10 years ago that were in their 20s and early 30s that are now retired because they went through a copy version of themselves, escalated, started their own companies, used the skills that they had to build an organization, and then exited that organization. And I know what it's worth because several of them have included me as a stockholder or adviser to the company. So I know it's factual. They actually had an e exit and I got a check for 100 grand out of the blue from somebody for >> That's beautiful. Nice. >> Yeah. So I know it's real. So I think that that's that's the other thing is this is as passionate as I am about my own work, I feel that way about the people I work with. They have to become excellent and it's not reputationable for me. It's just I'm stubborn. They have to become excellent. >> Well, definitely makes sense for a copyriter. You know, I'm just thinking as well with the career progression. It's like when you get to let's say 20 25K, the data I've got, you know, when you freelance, you can get to around 20 25K pushing. Maybe you can get to 30 35k with a junior or something. You could try build a, you know, maybe an agency with copywriting as a service agency. But I always find that this is sort of this cap. you always end up trading time for money. So, you know, I used copyrightiting as a not as a means to an end. I've always just loved I love writing. I love like creativity. So, I really doubled down with copyrighting. But I used copyrightiting to build my my education coaching business, um consulting work I did. And then I was able to, you know, kind of break that freelance income. But it was because I not only learned copyrightiting, but I also learned all these other business skills from some of the copy uh clients I used to work with. Like I used to work with Dan Martell. So I got to watch how he builds businesses and that taught me a lot of the business skills I didn't have. So I think for copyriters that are wanting to get to that next level, you know, what we've been talking about makes a lot of sense for them as the progression because you start with the skill of copyrightiting. You you develop, you know, more skills and you you learn you learn what's what's needed to basically run the marketing department completely. And then if you do end up having some vision for an in like a product that you want to build or you have somebody that you want to team up with then you have all those other skills that you can actually use to to scale them because I don't think uh you know I've seen a lot of copyrighters try and build their own business but a little bit prematurely sometimes u they just lack the skills and you can go figure it out. I've seen that be the case too. >> Well there's another whole piece of this that we haven't discussed and and I like that you you use the word copywriter abundantly. I'm not a copywriter. >> I'm a writer. What? Why? Why do I call myself a writer, not a copywriter? Because I write the right side. I write the right side of the script. I write the visuals. So, I go and I I write and I I I take the extra step to write the visual. So, now I know what the visual is that matches that copy. And then I get them to pay me to go film it and edit it. And that's the thing that terrifies copywriters is, "Oh my god, I got to leave my bedroom and work with other people and interact." And if you want to double your salary, write the other freaking side of the column, the visuals and go shoot the damn thing. There you doubled your salary. Do that 10 times and a company will hire you to do that on a campaign basis. And now it's royalty income. The very first TV show I did was for a cooking product, an an appliance. H >> one demonstration, 30inut show. It's a VSSL on television, but I got paid every time they sold one. And they sold $80 million a year for five years off of that one presentation I shot over four days. And I got five years worth of checks. Every month I was getting a check for 20, 30 grand from that one product. >> Amazing. So, I went and I made 10 more shows. When I was 34, I made less than $100,000 a year. When I was 36, I made over a million dollars a year. When I was 34, I was a CEO of a grocery company. When I was 36, I was a creative director of an infomercial company. I was doing the same thing. We were doing demonstrations in a booth in the grocery store selling food. Then I was doing demonstrations on television, selling food and an appliance that went along with it, but it added a few zeros to the salary. H >> So the the number one thing is fear. Copywriters go, "Well, I've never I can't do the visual. I mean, I know what the visual should be, but it's in my head. I got it." And they're done. They quit. No. Write the freaking visuals and go film them. Nut up. Go be a director. Go edit the thing. And guess what? You're gonna have way more joy because it's fun. It's fun to go picture something and then go film your dream and then put your dream out in the world and people are buying your dream. You want to feel enriched, go do go do what you were born to do because you're only doing half of what you were born to do. >> That's beautiful. Yeah. I love it. Lots of lots of moments you've left me speechless today. Thank you. It's been fantastic. Where can uh where can copyriters and writers find you and uh continue to learn from you? >> Um just just go find me on Facebook and send me a message and say you saw this and I'll tell you how to do whatever it is that you need to know, you know, wherever the gap is. We have a film camp. We have mercenary program that graduates you into a creative strategist. We have I have an MBA for people that know all that and they want to start their own businesses. all all kinds of stuff. But it's it's more about meeting you where you're at and getting you to double down on the courage to gamble on yourself because your future is 100% dependent upon one thing and that is you. >> I love it. With that said, thank you so much, Ron. I really appreciate our time together today. It's great. >> My pleasure. Thank you for having me on. >> Of course. We'll chat soon.