In this video, I'll show you how to sell more books on Amazon KDP using free strategies. So, if you're just starting out and you don't have a budget for paid ads, these are effective strategies you can do right now to increase your sales. Now, if you're new to the channel, my name is Shawn. I've been self-publishing for a very long time. I became a self-made millionaire from actually doing Amazon KDP before I started teaching it on YouTube. So, essentially, I made all that money just from doing the business. I am still working on my own Amazon KDP account to this day. So, if you want no-BS publishing advice from someone who's actually doing it, then make sure to subscribe. So, marketing is all about getting eyeballs to your book. If no one knows or sees your book, you won't make any sales. When you run paid ads like Amazon ads, you're literally paying Amazon to put your book in front of a lot of people. So, you're paying to get a lot more eyeballs, and that'll directly translate to sales. Now, I personally think running ads, especially Amazon ads, is the most direct and fastest way to start getting more sales. However, I do understand that if you're just getting started, you might not have the budget for it. Typically, the budget required is a lot cheaper than you think. A lot of people somehow think you got to, you know, have thousands of dollars to spend on Amazon ads when you're just getting started. When the reality is, you really just need couple bucks a day, right? Like three to five bucks a day is all you need to start testing ads, and once you're making more than you spend, then you start spending more because you're obviously going to make more back, right? So, that's how ads work. But, if you don't even have three to five bucks a day, or you really hate ads, you just want to do everything for free, whatever the reason that is, this is how you can sell more books without paid ads. Now, if you watch, you know, other videos on YouTube, people will tell you a lot of different things, right? Do podcast appearance, start writing on Substack, start blogging by creating a website and a blog. People will tell you all kinds of things, but most of those are basically useless. It's a complete waste of time. I'm all about being efficient and shortcutting my path to making money as much as possible. So, if you're going to do free marketing methods, the most direct and the fastest path to make money doing that is social media marketing, specifically posting short-form content. And that could be on TikTok, that could be on YouTube, on Instagram, but in general, TikTok is the most effective by far. Once again, even with social media marketing, most likely it's going to take longer than if you just, you know, ran paid ads. But that's a trade-off, right? You're saving money by investing a lot more time creating these short-form content, posting it. It's going to be work, but it's going to be free for you, right? Or would you rather save time and just pay money to run ads, which will save you a lot of time, but you're, you know, investing money. So, which do you want, right? You have to decide that yourself. You know, the answer, honestly, if you want to really scale your business to big levels, doing both is the answer because social media marketing is amazing, ads is amazing. So, doing both is the end goal, but if you have to start with one, that is your choice. But in terms of social media marketing, how do you exactly do it? Well, let me show you some real examples here. So, this is Mindful Minds Co-publishing. He is Ashley one of our coaches in the Road to Hero program. So, if you do join Road to Hero, you might, you know, interact with him. But Jonathan over here is a TikTok expert. He makes a lot of money from TikTok. A couple things I want to point out here is that Jonathan makes tens of thousands of dollars a month selling these books on Amazon, but also on TikTok Shop, which is another platform you can sell on. However, if you look at the average views that he's getting, it's just a couple hundred views per video for the most part, right? You know, if you sort by popular here, yes, he does have videos that's doing, you know, millions of views, right? Definitely boosted a lot of sales. But on average, he's doing a couple hundred views per video, or sometimes maybe thousands here, right? So, you just never know which video does well. But he's making tens of thousands of dollars a month. I think last time I asked him, he was doing like 40K a month or something like that. So, that's point number one is that, you know, most of your videos probably will not get a lot of views. So, it's a volume game when it comes to short-form content. You know, obviously, once one video does well, you want to kind of repeat the formula as much as possible, but you just want to keep testing new things and keep posting multiple videos every single day. The next point I want to make is that although Jonathan has videos where he's showing his face like this, most videos that went viral are ones where he's not even showing his face. It's simply showing the book cover, showing the interior, you know, with a cool background music, some text, 4.7 million views. Got a lot of sales doing this, right? The second highest viewed, I think. It's not the second highest, but this is almost a million views. Same thing. Just a simple bureau of the sky going into the book cover, almost 1 million views. This one over here, exact same one. I think what happened is this video worked well, so he just recreated it and it worked well again, right? So, it's just sky bureau going into probably the book once again. Yep, same thing with the text. 1 million views, right? Got a lot of sales. So, the video itself is not that hard to create, but obviously, you got to show up every day. You got to take these videos, right? And you have to post it every day, you know, although you can schedule these. So, that is work and that's the trade-off compared paid ads, but you don't have to show your face. You don't have to do these crazy videos, you know, simple is best. And this is actually what you want to do is once you have a video that's working, you want to keep repurposing it more and more and more, right? Keep recreating similar ones. So, if you sort by popular over here, most of Jonathan's viral videos are ones where he's sitting down filming himself with a book cover showing, you know, cleverly in the corner over here with a text. I think this is like a 10-20 second bureau. That is it, right? And it worked well, so he made multiple versions of it like more than, what is this, like more than 10, I think, overall. And many of them did really well. He has multiple sky versions over here. He has multiple showing the book interior versions over here. So, every single one of these videos are extremely simple to create, right? And inside Road to Hero, I actually have a whole Tik Tok module where I show you how to come up with these text, you know, in the captions with AI super quickly, unlimited ideas with AI, how to film it, you know, how to do the research, essentially everything you need to know here. But the basic concept is you post a lot of content, you test out what works, and then once you find what works, then you go and try to recreate it as much as possible, and you still test new ideas. So, let's say you're not in a non-fiction, you know, book niche, and you're in coloring books as an example. Well, what you want to do is to find other brands in the coloring book space and just model what they're doing. So, this is Coco Real, probably the most successful publishing brand at the moment, and these are the videos that they post, right? So, essentially, the ones that work are the ones where they're just coloring, you know, the pages here and showcase the interior of their book. Now, this takes a lot more work because you obviously have to color it in, make these videos. I got students in the coloring book space that outsource this entire process, so they hire someone that can, you know, color it in, bought these Ohuhu markers, sent it to the illustrator, and they filmed these videos, and my students post it on their account. So, it is definitely possible to outsource, but that's going to cost money, and you know, we're talking about free marketing strategies. So, if you want to do coloring books, you probably have to do it yourself, but not every single video has to be like this, right? Colored in. You can always just do a flip through video or something a lot simpler, too. But what I want to show you here is the fact that they're doing Tik Tok. Yes, Tik Tok is the first place that you should, you know, definitely focus on, but you can repurpose the same videos on Instagram, and they get less views, I think. I'm not sure, but typically with Instagram you get less views than Tik Tok, you know, from my experience, from Jonathan's experience, from, you know, our students' experience, right? But you still get something, so you still can pick up some sales there, and you can repurpose it on YouTube as well, which you can see here. And for some reason Coco Real does really well on YouTube. So, if you're doing coloring books, maybe YouTube works as well, but that is another way to pick up even more sales. So, their social media marketing strategy is crazy. They have a whole team, you know, it's a lot of work for them, but if you can make it work, you can make a lot of sales. By the way, I just want to say that I'm not hating on social media marketing. Clearly, I believe in social media marketing because I'm here posting YouTube content every single week, right? I am going heavy on YouTube long-form content because it works, you know, it's working really well for me. So, social media works, but when it comes to publishing books on Amazon, it really depends on what you want to do. Like, if you're watching this video right now, and if you want to do the same thing but for your books, which means making videos constantly every single week like how I'm doing with my YouTube videos, right? Although I'm promoting a different product. Again, you're going to be doing the same thing. So, if you want to do that, if you're cool with doing that, investing a lot of time, then social media marketing is amazing. But, if you don't want to invest that, as is available. So, again, it's a trade-off. But, once again, inside Road to Hero, we do show you the most efficient way to create simple videos that converts with the help of AI. So, if you're interested in learning more about Road to Hero because we cover both paid ads and organic marketing like this, you can check out the first link in the description. But, that is how you can repurpose your content in different platforms, TikTok, Instagram, YouTube, very effective. So, now I want to show you different types of videos you can create just to give you more ideas. You know, essentially, there are unlimited ideas and different videos you can create, but the best thing you can do is to find videos that are getting a lot of views in your niche. So, find other TikTok pages that are doing well promoting a book similar to yours. And you just basically model those videos. Don't just rip it off, but you know, make something similar because if it's working for them, it must work for you, too. So, the first video type, I call this the ASMR style because you're not talking, right? It's very calming, essentially just a background music with a text with, you know, book cover showcase. Here, you can film yourself or you can just be behind the camera showing the book, but as you can see, like 30 seconds of this, okay? So, that is one style. The next video type is just a simple talking head video like how I'm doing with this YouTube video. But, you know, talking about a topic and then you pitch a book, right? This author right here, it might not be showing in this video, but he does have a book on I think it's a spiritual topic, right? Inner work. And he usually pitches that in the video after talking about, you know, one concept inside the book. The next one is just simply showing your book cover or your book interiors. I call this a book showcase videos. But, this is by far my favorite from all the analyzing, you know, TikTok videos that I've seen, this video type performs the best. Literally just showing your book behind the camera. And for whatever reason, it converts really well. So, this one, as we know, Mom and Dad, I want to hear your story, you know, it blew up couple years back, still doing extremely well. Jeffrey, you know, the the author is a legend over here, right? And it's just a simple showing the book cover, talking about it, you know, and that is it. 10 million views, crazy stuff. The next one is also from here your story, and this is the book flipping or the, you know, the interior showing. And this also is my favorite, right? So, you know, showing the book cover, showing the interior, maybe a combination of both. The easiest video to create, as you can see, no editing, nothing. You just turn on the camera, start flipping, and you talk about it. You're not even doing the exercises, right? You're just, you know, going over each prompts here. And this video got, I believe, millions of views, and I'm sure it generated a lot of sales. This is also a good one. This is just reading one page. So, you know, this is a crazy part, right? You can flip through the entire book, show the entire pages, but the next video you can just work on one page, right? And one page is one video. And she's not even doing the exercises, she's just like literally reading the text out loud and going over. And this video got 70 million views. 70 million views. Imagine the amount of sales it generated, right? And this is from the Shadow Work Journal. It was the number one best-selling book, I think, 3 years ago, 4 years ago, I forgot. So, it definitely does work. And by the way, if you got a 100-page book, one page is one video. That means you can create 100 videos from one book. And the thing is, with social media, you can make similar videos over and over and over. So, once you go, you know, make those 100 videos, you can just start over from page one and just start making, you know, 100 videos from start again. So, you essentially got unlimited content. Next one is the coloring page book. We've seen this already, but it's just coloring in the page that you have inside. It's a little bit more work, but it looks really nice and it performs really well. So, as you can see, you know, these videos aren't that hard to create. You can just order a book, you know, and you can just flip through it, show the book cover, you know, there are a lot of simple video ideas to create. But, for whatever reason, if you really, really don't want to show yourself, show the book, have everything purely done online with perhaps using AI, then these are some AI TikTok examples, okay? So, this is a carousel video. So, it's a auto scrolling video different images over here, and it is from a children's book brand, Hayden Fox Media, and it's simple as 10 responsibilities for your kid that should take on by age 10. Personal hygiene, Midjourney generated image with a text, AI generated image with a text, and basically 10 of those, right? And it goes all the way until the end. And maybe it has a call to action over here. Now, the call to action is just to, you know, comment. But, you see the amount of saves and engagement. Like, isn't that crazy? 34,000 saves. And he has a link in the bio, so, you know, gets a lot of sales spillover from there. All right, so hopefully that gave you some ideas on how you can get started with social media marketing, which is by far the most effective free marketing strategy to start selling your book. By the way, if you're wondering, how can you go from TikTok to, you know, selling books on Amazon? Well, if you go viral on social media, people will automatically look up the book on Amazon, so you get a lot of spillovers without ever mentioning that the book is on Amazon. I've seen this happen multiple times, so that definitely happens. But once you have enough followers, you can do a link in bio and link to Amazon, or you can create your own website and you can, you know, link to Amazon from there. However way you want to do it, you can definitely do it. You can also sell your books on TikTok Shop, which is a more advanced strategy and it's definitely not free. But if you start getting good at social media marketing and you have proven video templates that every time you make a video like this, you know, you're getting a lot of views, and if you get consistent views from social media marketing, your next move definitely should be TikTok Shop because you can make a lot of money from TikTok Shop. And TikTok Shop and Amazon KDP goes hand in hand, it goes really well together. So, if you're curious about how that works, I do have this video right here on TikTok Shop for Amazon KDP. We'll put it up somewhere on the screen, so you can go and watch that video next. Now, if you do want to work with us, work with me and my team of coaches, including Jonathan, as you saw earlier here, and have us help you implement the Road to Hero method into your publishing business, which has a track record of scaling people to four, five, or even six figures per month and has over 520 Trustpilot reviews with over 4.9 average rating, then you can go to the first link in the description below. There's a short video that you can watch on how this works, and if everything sounds good, you can book a call. It's a free 30-minute strategy session, you talk to one of our coaches, not sales reps, and we can basically see if this program is a fit for you. We don't accept everybody because this is a coaching program, we work very closely with you, which means it takes a lot of time from us as well. So, we don't just accept everyone because we want to make sure that we can actually help you and also, you know, you are a coachable person, right? We don't work with someone who's a probably going to be a headache and not the best attitude. I also want to, you know, give a very clear disclaimer that this is not a get-rich-quick scheme. Amazon KDP is a real business, we have a lot of success stories, you know, inside our program, but obviously results aren't guaranteed. It'll take a lot of work and commitment from your side, but if you're willing to put in the work, I generally believe that this is the best coaching program out there. So, with that being said, thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, leave a like, subscribe, and I'll see you guys in the next one.