If you want to start Amazon KDP, but you don't know where to start, well, you're in the right place. Because if I had to start over from zero again, this is exactly how I would do it. In this video, I'm going to give you a complete Amazon KDP tutorial for beginners. So, if you're overwhelmed by conflicting advice, or you want a clear step-by-step roadmap, this video is for you. You don't need prior experience, you don't need an existing audience. Amazon KDP is an extremely beginner-friendly business model. So, let's get right into it. Once again, this is going to be a complete Amazon KDP tutorial for beginners. And my goal in this video is to give you roadmap to get to your first $1,000 per month. Because in Amazon KDP, we always say that if you can do $1,000, you can do $10,000. If you can do $10,000, you can do $100,000. Because all you have to do is rinse and repeat a few simple steps over and over and over until you're happy with how much you're making. Now, with that being said, a very quick disclaimer is that I obviously cannot guarantee any results. Because this is a real business, and a real business takes time, effort, energy, and I cannot control how much you're going to put into this, and that's why I cannot guarantee any results. All I can say is that I've made a lot of money in this business model. I have a lot of students crushing it as well. So, I know it works if you actually try and take action, but that is all up to you. So, first, let's start with who is Sean? Who am I? Because it's important to listen to someone who has the results that you're trying to get. So, I started publishing in 2016, so it's been 10 years since I've been doing this. I hit $10,000 per month in 10 months of starting this, and I went on and built a multiple six-figures-a-year KDP business. I was generating multiple six-figures-a-year, and I ran that for multiple years. And a few years later, I sold that first KDP account for $820,000, which made me a self-made millionaire at age 26 doing this business, right? Not teaching, not selling courses, actually doing this business. And right after I sold it, I started a new Amazon KDP account, which also hit six figures a year. And since then, I've been maintaining that six figures a year run rate for multiple years. So, at this point, I focus more on teaching, right? Through my YouTube videos. I do have a course coaching program that I sell, but typically when people transition to selling courses, they neglect the business that they have. But I'm over here still making six figures a year from my own KDP business. I'm still doing this 10 years in. And if you don't believe anything I say, I documented my entire journey of building this business in this KDP income report playlist, which you can just look it up on my channel, and all the videos there. So, I was able to quit my 9-5 job and travel the world, all thanks to Amazon KDP. So, I lived in many different countries, many different locations. This is in Bali, Indonesia. This is in Thailand. This is in China. This is in Hawaii. I've also lived a bit in Europe and Latin America. And that's the beauty of this business model is that everything is online. All you need is a laptop and an internet connection. So, that's exactly why I can move around like this, live in different countries, and still make money online. So, Amazon KDP absolutely changed my life. I was broke. I was working a 9-5 trying to make something happen. This was the first business that I was ever successful in. And that is the case for a lot of people. This is the first business model that they actually make money with. And that is because, again, this business model is way simpler than others, and it's extremely beginner-friendly. And for that reason why we have thousands of students inside our programs that are actually making money with this. We got students doing $7,000 a month, $5,000, $6,000, €3,000 a month, and much, much more. In fact, I brought on some of our students and interviewed them on this channel, and I compiled all those interviews on a playlist called student results and success stories, which I highly encourage you to go and watch. We got students doing literally $200,000 profit per month, $23,000 per month, $4,000 profit. We got a single mom working four jobs that's doing over $10,000 per month. So, once again, hopefully that shows you that this is possible. You just have to understand that this is a real business, and what you get out of it depends on what you put into it. So, let's get started with the actual meat of this video. So, what is Amazon KDP? Well, Amazon KDP is Amazon's self-publishing platform. It's completely free. There's no monthly fee, no sign-up fee, nothing. So, everyone can sign up and start publishing their books on this. Now, the reason why Amazon KDP, in my opinion, is the best business model to get started, especially if you're a beginner, or if you just want freedom, okay? And that is because you don't have to deal with any inventory, since this is a print-on-demand model, which means Amazon only prints your books out once you make a sale and ships it to the customer. Or, if you sell ebooks or audiobooks, it's all digital. So, you have absolutely no inventory, you don't have to deal with that. You don't have to do any customer service, because Amazon does all of that for you. You got high profit margins with the digital product. It's open to almost everyone in the whole world, right? We're talking Amazon. Amazon is the biggest online retail store in the whole world. And they're not going anywhere, okay? Amazon's just going to keep expanding and take over the world eventually. So, it's also good for us to be nice to Amazon right now when that happens. The learning curve is very low, and the reason why the learning curve is low is because you don't have to learn a lot of the things that you normally have to learn in other business models. In other business models, you're the one that's doing the inventory, the customer service, shipping and handling, right? And because you have to do those, obviously you have to learn how those things work. But because Amazon handles all of this for you, you don't have to learn it, which means it's a lot easier to get started. And because everything is digital, you don't have to deal with the fees of manufacturing the product, shipping and handling, inventory, the startup cost is very low as well. And the main thing compared to other business models is low competition. Now, competition still exists, because there's not a single business model that has no competition, but compared to other business models, it's less competition. As an example, the yellow circles here represents how many physical products are being sold on Amazon. So, if you're doing Amazon FBA selling physical products, you're competing with all these circles, right? But compared to that, the red circles here in the corner represents how many books are sold on Kindle, which is, as you can see, a lot less. So, the mindset you want to have as you build this business this is, once again, not a get-rich-quick scheme. It's slow in the beginning to build up, but as you build it, things keep snowballing bigger and bigger and bigger, and the momentum really keeps going. And also, once you build your income, it sustains pretty well as well. So, you're building passive income that will last for years. That's what you should be reminding yourself of. Because with all the other business models, if you stop building the business, your income usually dies immediately. But with this business model, once your book is out there, it's out there, right? You don't have to do anything, it's still going to be on Amazon. It could continue to sell for months, if not years. We have a lot of students who, for whatever reason, leave the business model, stop working on it, and for years, they keep getting paid month after month. So, yes, you can make money short-term, but you also want to kind of see this as a long-term investment. And we're learning a valuable skill that we can apply in, you know, other businesses that we might build in the future. So, these are the types of books you can publish. Essentially, you can categorize the type of books in three different categories. First is the high-content books, and we're talking traditional non-fiction, fiction books. These are the books that you probably think of when you first hear books. Next is medium-content books. So, we're talking puzzle books, coloring books, activity books, a lot of pretty design-heavy books in this category. And the last one is low-content books, like journals, planners, barely no content inside, and that's why we call it low-content books. And in terms of how you want to look at it, this is a little graphic that I created, but essentially, you have the low content in the bottom, and you see that this is the biggest in the pyramid, right? So, what the size is representing is competition. Low content is significantly easier to create compared to medium or high content, because it's literally low in content, so it's very easy to whip it up. But because these books are easy to create, most people are doing this. And because most people are doing it, obviously you will be competing with most people. And for that reason, you typically make the least amount of money. Now, if you move up to medium content here, you have a little less competition, because these books are a little harder to create. And because when something is hard, not a lot of people want to do it, everybody gravitates towards the easy way out, right? So, if you can be the one that does something a little bit harder, now you cut down the competition, and typically you make more money. Now, if you go all the way up to high content, this is the hardest book to create, because it has a lot of content inside. It takes a little bit more time, and for that reason, the least amount of people are trying to do this, which means you have the least amount of competition, and typically these books makes you the most amount of money. Now, with that being said, though, what's happening nowadays that's crazy is that AI is making high-content book creation very easy. So, despite the competition being the smallest, it's actually not that hard to create, which I'm going to show you in this video later on. So, I would say the opportunity right now with high-content books is better than ever. But if you're thinking, "What if I'm not an expert, right? How do I create these books without being an expert?" Well, you have to understand that the value comes from organizing the information and teaching it in an easy-to-understand way, not from having new information. If you read books pretty often, if you consume content in any medium, most of the time, the information is not new, right? You probably heard of that information before. But a lot of times, people just want reminders. So, just reminding them of the same thing is enough, but at the same time, organizing this information in an easy-to-understand way in form of a book is also a value. You save people a lot of time. So, the value doesn't have to be new information. It can be just saving time. And for that value of saving time, people are willing to pay, you know, up to $20 for a book, right? So, that's how you want to look at it. But also, you can learn as you go, right? As you publish these books, you're obviously going to be learning about the topic. So, you can eventually become an expert, but you don't have to start off that way. So, as we produce these books, very important to keep in mind that quality over everything, okay? We're producing high-quality books that people love. That is how you win in this business. We are not spamming low-quality books and tricking people into buying low-quality books. Like, that's not what we're doing here. And we also can utilize AI. This is optional, but I highly recommend it, right? You can create better books faster with AI. That's the whole purpose of AI. It's not to just spam garbage, right? It's to help us do things better at a faster rate. So, with that being said, we move on to actual step-by-step how-to here. So, step one, we want to start with keyword research. So, first, we want to download this Chrome plugin called DS Amazon Quick View. It's completely free. I'll leave a link to this in the description. Now, it's completely optional, but you can also choose to invest in Book Beam. This is the best paid keyword research software out there. But again, this is a paid subscription. Now, you want to write down any topic that comes into your mind. So, whatever passion, interest, hobbies, any ideas that are flowing into your brain right now, just start writing it down into a pen and paper. To get more ideas, you can search the Amazon best-selling categories, and just start seeing what kind of books are selling, and you can get more ideas there. So, this is how you go to the best-sellers category. Literally, just click on best-sellers right here, go to books, and from there you can go into different categories. Like, I can do crafts, hobbies, and home here, and I'm seeing a lot of coloring books ranking in this category. So, what you see here is from DS Amazon Quick View, which is this plugin right here. So, just look this up on the Chrome Store. Once again, it's completely free. I also try and leave a link in the description. And what you're seeing here is from BookBeam, the paid tool. The difference is that BookBeam calculates how much the book is making based on the sales rank that you see here. So, this one book is doing $2,000 per day. This book is doing $1,600 per day in royalties. Pretty crazy, right? Now, what you're seeing here, this is called the best-sellers rank, and this is Amazon telling us how well the book is selling. In terms of this number, the lower the better. So, if it's number one in books, then that means it's the number one best-selling book in the entire bookstore. So, this is 48 in books, meaning it's the 48th best-selling book in the entire bookstore. So, that's very, very good. So, you can do a brain dump to get ideas. You can also search different Amazon categories and start getting ideas. Like, these are all ideas, right? Like, a book on United States coins, you know, selling very well. We have adult swear words coloring book doing really well. Color by number mysteries, right? So, a lot of book topics are popping up right now. Another way you can get ideas is using ChatGPT. So, I just asked, "Give me 50 profitable book topics I can write about for my Amazon KDP business." And we have, you know, self-help like dopamine detox, overthinking, emotional intelligence, money, and career like personal finance for beginners, budgeting, and 50 more. Now, I personally like this one, home and lifestyle. We got decluttering for overwhelmed adults. So, I do use decluttering as an example often, so let's take this. And essentially, after you brain dump a bunch of different book topics, you want to start searching that on Amazon one by one. So, I took decluttering, put it in the search bar, and this is what we're seeing on page one. So, this is how you validate if the keyword is profitable or not. So, once you search for the topic, you want to look for other books with below 80,000 BSR. Because if a book is doing around 80,000 BSR, we can assume that it's doing around $500 per month on average, which is a pretty good benchmark to aim. So, if you find three other books that fits that criteria doing below 80,000 BSR, then we can safely assume that that's a pattern, right? So, we can assume that the keyword is profitable. Now, if books on page one has low reviews, that's also a good sign that you don't need a ton of reviews to rank. So, going back to the decluttering keyword here, we have this book way below 80,000 BSR, and for that reason it's doing a lot more than $500 a month. This is doing $252 per day. This is also way below 80,000, doing a lot more than that. This is 43,000, right? So, below 80,000. This one as well. So, we're seeing multiple books below 80,000 BSR, which tells us decluttering is a profitable topic. Even this book right here only has 26 reviews, and yet it's below 80,000 BSR, making couple hundred dollars a month. So, that is a good sign if a book is selling with low reviews. But, the main thing we're looking at is the BSR number here. Once again, if you don't have BookBeam, you can just look at the same number using DS Amazon Quick View. So, you want to repeat that process for all the keywords that you found, and once you find multiple profitable keyword, you just choose the one that you like the best, and then we move on to step two. Step two is to actually create the book. So, there are many ways to create books. You can write the book yourself if you want to and if you have the ability to. You can also hire a ghostwriter and outsource this process, or you can use an AI software like co-author.ai. The first step in the book writing process is to create a book outline. So, a book outline is essentially a skeleton of the book. It's very important to create this before you actually write the book because if you don't plan out the whole book, and you just start randomly writing from, you know, chapter one, you have no direction and it's going to be very hard to write, and the quality is probably not going to be good. It's basically the equivalent of me turning on the camera and I have no script, no plan on what I'm going to talk about, and I just start yapping in my videos, right? So, obviously, we don't want to do that. We want to create an outline on, you know, the things that we want to cover inside our book. So, to create the book outline, we can look at our top competitor table of contents and their reviews, and we can get ideas on what to include. We want to write down chapters that stands out, and we want to combine the best chapters from multiple of our competitors and put it into our book. So, essentially, learning from the best-selling competitors, taking the best parts of their book and put it into ours. We also want to read the reviews and write down what the customers liked or didn't like about their books, and we want to make sure to do the things that people liked and avoid the things that people didn't like. We also can use ChatGPT to get more ideas. So, this is how you do it. In my case, I'm doing decluttering, so I'm just going to start opening up my top competitors here, and Amazon allows you to kind of stalk on your competitors, right? So, you can actually read sample here, and you can scroll down to see their table of contents. And from here, you start reading it, right? And, you know, if you feel like, "Oh, this chapter is really cool. I really want to make sure my book includes something like this as well." then you put it into your outline. If you feel like it's kind of fluff and you don't think it's that important, then you skip it. So, that's something you can definitely do. You also can scroll down to the review section and start reading these positive and negative reviews. And if you start seeing patterns like people are always complaining about the same thing, right? People are saying, "Oh, I wish the author covered this, but I'm disappointed that it didn't cover this thing." Well, you take note of that, and you make sure that your book covers that exact thing, right? If a lot of people are loving something like, "Oh, I love this part about the book." you take note of that, and you make sure you do the same thing as well. Now, a quick hack is that you can literally copy this entire thing, like highlight this entire thing, and just paste it into ChatGPT, ask it to summarize what people liked, what people didn't like, and make this process way, way faster. Or, you can ask ChatGPT to create the entire book outline. Now, quick disclaimer is that ChatGPT is not perfect, right? This is a very simple book outline. It works, but it's not the best. But, this is how you can kind of get started with it. So, I just said to ChatGPT, "I'm creating a book on decluttering. Please create a detailed eight-chapter book outline." And we have chapter one, why clutter is draining your life. Chapter two, the decluttering mindset that actually works. Chapter three, your decluttering game plan, and so on and so forth. Now, what you can do is combine this with the other strategies, right? Looking at, you know, the competitor table of contents, maybe changing few chapters from here to what you got from ChatGPT, also looking at the reviews, right? Make sure you add the, you know, good things and the bad things about your competitors inside your book. And you want to make sure to create a very detailed book outline, as detailed as possible. And once that is ready, it's time to actually start filling out those chapters and start writing the book. Now, a couple things to understand here. In terms of the word count and the trim size, if you're doing high-content books like my decluttering book is a high-content book, right? It's a very typical non-fiction self-help book. So, for these type of books, what I recommend in terms of word count is 30,000 words. And for the trim size, I recommend 5 by 8 to 6 by 9. Those two sizes are the standard sizes in terms of these type of books, and it depends on the formatting, but this comes out to around 150 to 200 pages, which is around the perfect length. Anything shorter than this, people will kind of complain that it's too short, but anything longer than this, and typically, you start kind of having fluff in your book. And it's a lot better to have a short and straight-to-the-point book that's full of good information compared to a 500-page book where 80% of the book is just fluff and repeating the same thing over and over and over, right? People don't value more page count. What people want is the highest value per time invested, if that makes sense. In our case, you can think of highest value per page. So, if every single page has good information, good storytelling, it's packed with value, it is much, much better than a way longer book where people have to read through 10 pages just to get one simple tip or something like that. Now, that's for high-content. Now, if you're doing low and medium-content, your word count and trim size depends. So, you just want to kind of look at your competitors, see what they're doing, and model them from there. As an example, if you're trying to create a coloring book, right? You want to open up all your top competitors, and you can see the dimensions right here. This is a trim size. So, if everyone else is doing 8.5 by 8.5 trim size, you probably want to do the same thing. If everyone's doing around 80 pages for their coloring book, which is a typical length for the coloring book, then you probably want to do 80 pages or maybe a little bit more to offer a little bit more value, right? Even in the description, you will see that, you know, they're offering 40 hand-drawn pages. If everyone's doing 40 hand-drawn pages, maybe try 45 hand-drawn pages, right? Offer a little bit more value. So, always try and compete with value. You know, be the best book in the market. Next, we want to create our book title. So, for publishing non-fiction books, your book title should have your main keyword, and you want to add a little bit of flair to it, right? So, in my case, my main keyword is decluttering. If you have a book on, let's say, ketogenic diet, your main keyword is ketogenic diet. If you have a book on how to stop overthinking, your main keyword is how to stop overthinking. You want to put that in the title. The reason why is because you're essentially telling Amazon what your book is about. When you put decluttering in the title, you're telling Amazon that your book is about decluttering. So, when people search for decluttering on Amazon, your book has a higher chance of showing up. If you skip this and just create a fancy title, then Amazon has no idea what your book is about, and you have a way less chance of showing up on page one. But, at the same time, if I just say decluttering as a title, that's boring, right? You still want to sell the book, so that's why you put keyword plus something else. Like, in this case, as an example, I put 10-minute decluttering cheat sheet, right? I put 10-minute before the keyword and cheat sheet after. You know, I could also do like decluttering made simple. So, that's why you want to do keyword plus spicing it up as the formula. You want to refer to your outline and add words that appeals to your target audience. You want to get inspiration from your competition, but don't copy. You can use ChatGPT to get more book title ideas, but make sure it's unique enough from competitors. That's another issue with ChatGPT is that it often just kind of rehashes the same thing over and over and over. So, the output you get from it could be very similar to what's already out on the market, and that's why you want to make sure that that's not the case, right? You can get ideas from ChatGPT, but you want to kind of edit it. So, I asked ChatGPT to generate a book title for this book adding the keyword decluttering, and right off the bat, we got decluttering made simple, right? Funny because this is what I mentioned earlier. Decluttering your life, decluttering without the stress, and so much more. So, should you use a pen name or a real name? The honest answer is it doesn't matter at all. Like, it's not going to affect sales. So, if you're shy, if you're not confident in putting your name on a book and putting it out there, you can definitely use a pen name. It's completely fine. Like, J.K. Rowling from the Harry Potter series is a pen name, right? So, this is a very common practice. But, at the same time, what I will tell you is that if you have any fear of putting your real name out there, don't worry because no one's going to judge you. Most of the time, the fear that we feel is just our brain making things up, and it's actually not what's happening in real life. Again, most likely no one's judging you. So, you can be more confident and put your name on a book if you want to. At the same time, all my books are under a pen name, so it's really up to you. And a pen name could be a person or a brand name. It does not matter. So, let's talk about how to actually write the book. As I said earlier, you have a couple options here. You can do it yourself to save money, or you can outsource to save time. Now, this is up to you, but you have to choose which one is best for you. So, if you want to save money by investing time, if you have like a text-heavy book like decluttering, you can just write the book yourself. If you have design-heavy books like coloring books, you can design the book yourself. If you want to save time, but invest money, then for text-heavy books, you can outsource to a ghostwriter. For design-heavy books, you can outsource to designers and have them make the book. As an example, there are a lot of freelancers that will create entire low and medium content books for you. So, this person right here will create a book cover and a book interior, so basically an entire low-content book like a journal for $75, and the quality is pretty good. Now, if you want to create coloring books, there's someone that can help you with that, too. Like, they can create these coloring pages for just $10 a page. If you want to test out these services, I'll leave a link in the description below. And for text-heavy books, you can outsource to ghostwriters. Again, you can find plenty of ghostwriters from many different websites like Upwork and Fiverr, and you can negotiate with them the rate and start working with them. Now, if you do choose to use a ghostwriter for high-content books, the typical cost that you're looking at is around 1 to $2,000 per book, which is definitely not cheap. And for that reason, nowadays I'm shifting towards using AI and writing the books myself. The best way to do this is using coauthor.ai, which is a software that I created by working with a developer who sold a project to NASA. So, he's the one that built out the software. I'm the one that's guiding him on exactly how to do this based on my 10 years of publishing experience and knowing exactly how to structure a best-selling book. So, coauthor makes the entire book writing process super simple. Everything is just step-by-step, so you can follow along. It is a paid tool, though, so you do have to pay a little bit, but it's significantly cheaper than using a ghostwriter. If you want to check out coauthor, I'll leave a link in the description, as well as I filmed a separate video on the complete step-by-step tutorial on how to use coauthor.ai to write an entire book. So, I'll also leave a link to the video in the description. Now, if you're wondering, "Why not just use ChatGPT or Claude or Gemini?" Well, you definitely can, but those are general AI tools, and it's not specifically built just to write high-quality books. So, typically speaking, the quality of output you get from those tools is worse than, you know, a custom-designed AI software like coauthor. But, depending on the book topic, if you're creating a very, very simple book that requires just simple content, then you can definitely use ChatGPT and other tools that you might prefer. So, for a lot of books, it's not good enough to produce a high-quality book yet. But, for shorter list-type books, those are pretty easy to make with ChatGPT. As an example, this dad jokes book is doing $100 a day in royalties. And if you look inside, it's just a compilation of one dad joke after another. And to get something like this, you can literally ask ChatGPT to write me 10 dad jokes on animals, or 10 dad jokes about sports, you know, really anything. So, if you're using ChatGPT or any AI tools, it's very important to understand the do's and don'ts, what you should and should not do. So, what you should not do is to just copy-paste. Okay, you never want to copy-paste from AI because you want to use AI as a first draft. From there, you should still add your own content, your own stories, and inputs to make the content your own. It's very important to remember that AI is not here to replace you in the book creation process. AI is just here to assist you, right? So, you're still writing the book with AI. AI is not writing the book for you. You also want to fact-check a lot of the stuff because AI is very confident in saying something, but often times it's not backed by anything. Like, it's just random information, and it could be wrong. So, if you would use ChatGPT to start writing the actual content of the book, you can ask something like this where I just said, "Follow the outline and write me the introduction chapter." And since in the same conversation it already generated the outline, it started writing the introduction chapter. Now, once again, if you use normal AI softwares, typically what happens is the introduction chapter is completely fine. Chapter one is also fine, but then around chapter two or three, it becomes extremely repetitive, and the information becomes more and more surface level, which is a very common problem using AI, and that's why we created coauthor to overcome exactly that issue. Once again, the problem with using normal AI tools is that it's not created for the sole purpose of designing a best-selling book. It also forgets what it wrote after a while, and it becomes very, very repetitive. And nine times out of 10, it's just surface-level content and sometimes incorrect information. So, yes, it's possible to use ChatGPT or other generic AI tools to write a book. You just have to spend more time. It kind of goes back to the concept I talked about earlier on. You're always investing time or money, right? The more money you invest, typically the more time you save. So, if you're using free or, you know, $20 a month ChatGPT tool, you're saving money compared to using, you know, coauthor cuz it's a little bit more expensive, or using ghostwriters, but you're probably going to have to invest a lot more time in fixing up the content. So, if you want to do that, you definitely can. If you want to save a little bit more time, you can use coauthor or using a ghostwriter, but this decision is completely up to you. So, if you're wondering, "Isn't it unethical to sell ghostwritten or AI books?" And my honest answer to this is no. Selling bad books is bad, right? No matter how it was created. Because let's be honest here, just because you wrote the book yourself without AI, you didn't get any help from AI, does not automatically make it a good book. Like, you could write the book yourself without AI, and it can absolutely suck. And if you try to sell that book, and a customer buys it, and it's super crappy, they're going to be angry, okay? Because it provides no value. But, alternatively, if you write a book that's ghostwritten or you used AI, but it's actually good, it's packed full of value, right? A lot of information, saves people a lot of time, whatever the value is. And if the customer buys it, and they get benefit from it, they'll be happy. They wouldn't care if it's created by AI or not. Often times, they're not even going to notice it's created by AI. So, bottom line, it doesn't matter how the book is created, right? As long as the customers are happy, which means that the book is high-quality and it has good value, that is the only thing that matters. All right, so after you're done writing the entire book, you want to finish up with a quick proofreading and editing. So, whether you get the book back from the ghostwriter or you write the book yourself, you want to carefully read through it to make sure you're happy with the content. Check for errors, typos, grammatical issues. You can use tools like Grammarly for plagiarism check, as well. And if you use a ghostwriter, and if you're not happy with the content, you definitely want to request for revisions until you're happy with it. Never accept the book that you're not happy with. Once you're happy with the content, the next step is to format the book. So, you want to format your book for both ebook and paperback, so you can sell it in two different versions. But, if you have an activity book or journals that doesn't really apply to ebooks, then you don't need to make an ebook version. I do have a step-by-step tutorial on how to format your book for free using Reedsy. So, I'll leave a link to this video in the description. I want you guys to go watch it and follow along and format your book. So, book formatting is something you can definitely do yourself. It's a bit time-consuming, but it's not too hard once you learn it. But, if you want to upgrade the quality of the formatting, or if you just want to outsource this entirely, you can find freelancers that will do this for you. I'll leave a link to this freelancer. I've worked with him for literal years at this point, and he will format your book for between 50 to $100. Once your book is created, it's time to create your book cover. Now, for this one, you can technically create book covers yourself, but I highly recommend you pay a professional. Because your book cover is one of the most crucial step. It affects sales so much. People do judge a book by its cover. And if you have a crappy book cover that you tried to design yourself, it's most likely not going to sell. And again, it's very, very important. So, at the very least, outsource it to some of these budget gigs that I found on Fiverr, which is only going to cost 10 to 20 bucks. Preferably, you pay more as you scale the business, but if you're just getting started, and if you just want to test out this business, you can use these gigs. So, I'll leave a link to this video. Watch the video. It has the recommendation of services, and you can go from there. This is actually one of the freelancer that I recommend. She charged $10, and these are the samples. Like, it's pretty damn good, I would say. Like, it's a lot better than what you can probably create yourself using Canva. All right, so once you have your book cover ready, now you have all the book files, and you're ready to upload to Amazon. So, let's do exactly that. Step three is uploading the book. So, first, you want to sign up to Amazon KDP. Just search Amazon KDP sign up on Google. It'll take you to a page like this. Just click sign up, create your account. Just go through the process, enter your bank and tax details, so you can get paid. Now, this is a super simple process. You shouldn't have any issues, but if you do, you can watch this video. I'll leave a link in the description for a step-by-step tutorial on this. So, once you log in, it'll look like this. This is where you go to create new titles, and you can choose ebook, paperback, hard cover, or create a series page. Now, if I walk you through step-by-step, the video will be a bit too long, so I'm going to just link to this video once again on how to upload a book to Amazon KDP. It's a complete step-by-step tutorial. Very, very simple, straightforward. Just follow this video. Again, the link is in the description. Once you're done uploading, within a few days, Amazon will approve your book, and it'll be live on Amazon and selling. Now, if you want to check the sales that you've made, you just go to the reports tab, and if you've made any sales, it'll show up here. All right, now let's talk about step four, book marketing. So, now that your book is live and selling on Amazon, there is a pretty high chance, although I cannot guarantee, that you will start making some sales here and there because Amazon is so big that just by doing zero marketing, just by being on Amazon, a lot of times people make some sales. However, we're talking few sales here and there, like a couple dollars here, a couple dollars there, right? It's definitely not life-changing income. If you want to scale this so you're actually making some decent income, then you do have to do some marketing. So, you want to get sales and reviews in the first 30 days of publishing the book to tell Amazon that your book is in demand. In any return, Amazon will rank your book higher in their algorithm, and your book will be seen to more people. Because Amazon want to push books that customers are liking, and also it's selling because Amazon want to make money, too, right? So, the more sales you can get yourself, the more Amazon will push it, and that means the more organic free sales you will also get. So, before sales, you want to get reviews first because it's a lot easier to sell books once you have enough reviews. So, I recommend you get minimum 15 reviews per book before starting marketing. Reviews act as a social proof, which makes it much, much easier to get sales. There are many ways to get reviews. You can use a Facebook group method which is essentially just passing out a free copy of your book in different Facebook groups associated with your niche. You can use sites like BookBounty which is a small monthly subscription but it saves you a lot of time or you can use sites like BookReverb which makes it super simple and super fast to gather reviews. So I got this video tutorial on the best ways to get reviews. I'll just leave a link in the description but a quick demonstration of this in terms of how to do this free. You can use a Facebook group method which is essentially just type in whatever keyword associated with your book, scroll down to groups and you want to join active groups, right? With a lot of members and they're making a lot of posts a day. And once you join, you want to engage a little bit, get to know people and then a little bit later you say, "Hey guys, I just published a book on this topic. I would love to give out a free copy of my book in exchange for your honest feedback. Who's interested, right?" And you get a lot of comments, you respond to each one by sending them a DM. You send them a PDF copy of your book and then you follow up around 1 to 2 weeks later saying, "Hey, how did you enjoy the book?" If they tell you that they liked it, you can be like, "Awesome. Do you mind spending a minute to write a review on Amazon?" And then you send them the Amazon link. So that is how you can collect reviews for free. Obviously, it's very time-consuming but again, that is a trade-off if you want to save money. If you're fine with paying a little bit to use a service that saves you a lot of time, the two best ones once again, BookReverb and BookBounty. I'll leave a link in the description below. So once you have enough reviews, it's time to start getting sales. So Amazon wants to promote high-quality books that sells. Nothing tells Amazon that more than getting reviews and sales first. So you want to do a little work in the beginning by getting reviews and sales. Then Amazon will take over the rest and that's when the snowball effect kicks in. So there are many free and low-cost ways to promote your book and getting sales but I'll leave a link to this video in the description. You can go watch that and you start implementing it. Essentially, the two most effective ways are using Amazon Ads which is the paid method but it's fast or social media marketing which is free but it takes longer. Once again, do you want to invest time or do you want to invest money? Now Amazon Ads is not as scary as you think. You're not spending this crazy amount of money. You can just start with a couple bucks a day. I do have a step-by-step beginner tutorial which is this video. Once again, the link is below this video. Basically, the links to all the resources I show you in this video is in the description below. Now as for social media marketing, the best way to get started is with TikTok. TikTok is the best when it comes to growing fast. Now you can post a bunch of different type of videos but the best one that I recommend is these ones where you literally just order a copy of your own book and you showcase the book. This very very simple video of showing the book and talking about it got 5.3 million views and generated a lot of money for this brand. Now you can make other videos like where you show your face and you're talking to the camera but those videos typically get a lot less views than if you just show the book and you're behind the camera talking about it. If you're going to do social media marketing, you do have to be consistent though. You cannot just post a couple videos and see how it goes. You have to show up every single day posting at least one video a day for months. So after you've gone through all the steps we talked about so far, congratulations, you're now a published author. Now if you're happy with where you're at, you can definitely stop here but if you want to keep scaling and keep building your business, you can move on to step five which is turning your book into an audiobook. So you cannot create an audiobook if you have low content or activity books that doesn't really apply as an audiobook and that's exactly why I like high content books, especially non-fiction books. But audiobooks as an additional income stream is actually very very profitable. I have a video on how I made hundreds of thousand dollars just from audiobooks so you can make a lot of money with that. And the process of turning your book into an audiobook is very easy. You simply sign up to ACX which is Amazon's sister company. You put your book up for audition. You get a lot of narrators saying, "Hey, I want to narrate your book." So you listen to their samples, you pick the one you like and your book will be narrated. In terms of the cost, that's also something you negotiate with the narrator but for a typical 30,000 word book, it's probably going to be around $200 one-time payment. Once again, this is how I made hundreds of thousand dollars outside of amazon.com. This is a Facebook group post that I made when I crossed 100,000 audiobooks sold and this was 2020, literally like 6 years ago. So I made way more sales since then obviously and each sale is about $3.4 in royalties. So you can do the math there but uh yeah, I made a lot of money with audiobooks. So what is next after that? Well, if you follow these strategies and create a high-quality book in a in-demand niche, chances are high that you will start making sales. Once again, this is a real business. Nothing is guaranteed. I cannot guarantee anything but I am pretty confident that if you follow these steps and actually take action, you will start making sales. And by repeating these steps and publishing more books, you can make $1,000 per month or a lot more. Now from here, you can expand into different advanced strategies, right? So you can turn this one book into seven plus more income streams and you can use these strategies to scale to 10K per month and much much more such as audiobooks as we talked about, publishing your book in other book stores because Amazon KDP is just a start. There are other book stores outside of Amazon where people buy books from. You can translate your book and so many more strategies that obviously if I try to cram it in this video, the video will be way too long but I cover this more in-depth in my programs. We have a lot of students absolutely crushing it like this student who made $58,000 in a single month. We have Christine over here doing over 10K per month or Brock who made 25K in a single month. another student who did $40 in her day one, like literally day one after uploading the book from her very very first book. And another student who did over a million dollars lifetime royalties in about 2.5 years. Once again, guys, I said it many times and I'll keep saying this. Nothing is guaranteed. I'm not trying to come across as this online guru that's trying to sell you my programs, you know, using hype strategies, right? I'm not trying to hype anything up. I genuinely believe Amazon KDP is the best beginner-friendly business model to get started but it is still a real business. And a real business will require some investments to grow it, right? It'll require time, some money to produce these books, maybe running some ads if you want to scale it and an investment in terms of your effort and really showing up every single day consistently putting in action. But if you can do that, it's possible to achieve these results because we have a lot of students, way more than what I've showed you that's absolutely crushing it. It is kind of crazy right now. So you have everything you need to know to make $1,000 per month in this video. But if you want to take it further, right? And shortcut the learning curve and shortcut the time to get to success, then you can join our coaching program or you can at least apply to join our coaching program because we don't accept everyone. It's the first link in the description. You can apply for a free 30-minute strategy call and see if this program is a good fit for you. Once you join, you'll be working with a coach one-on-one. You get access to multiple live workshops and a very active community of other publishers. The biggest successes in publishing typically comes from those who took our coaching program. All right. Well, with that being said, you've made it till the end of the video so it is time to take action. Once you follow this video, once you publish a book, let me know in the comments that you published a book so that we can congratulate you. And if you made it all the way until the end of the video, you're obviously serious about this because this video is kind of long. So let me know that you made it all the way until the end by commenting I made it to the end and I'll try to respond to as many questions and comments as possible. So if you enjoyed the video, leave a like, subscribe. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you guys in the next one.