In this video, I am going to be breaking down how anyone can write unaware ads. I'm going to explain why unaware ads are so important and give you the definitive guide to write them. I literally don't think that there is a more comprehensive guide that is out there that will break down step by step exactly what you need to do. Try to make it as simple as possible. And let's jump in. So, first thing is an unaware ad. If you're aware of the the stages of awareness, this is from Eugene Schwarz. You have unaware, problem aware, solution aware, product aware, and then most aware. We'll revisit those in just a second. One of those stages is the unaware stage. Okay? And the unaware stage is typically this one up here. It's typically the biggest segment of the possible market. Um, for these kind of individuals, they don't know that they have a problem. uh they don't know that they uh are looking for a solution. And so what you're trying to do is you're trying to bring them from a place of complacency where they don't know something into a place where they're ready to buy your product. Okay. Now, the reason why these are so important for uh anyone to know whether you're a business owner or you want to be a creative strategist is one um unaware ads are the hardest to write. That's why they're the most valuable. So, if you're a creative strategist and or copywriter and you know how to write unaware ads, you become a weapon to any business that you work for. Okay? And also, the fact that they're hard to write means that if you're a business owner, you have a hidden advantage if you know how to do unaware ads. Okay? And the reason you have a hidden advantage is because these ads are single-handedly the most powerful ads when you crack them. They're not easy to crack, but when you crack one and you get one that is is works, they have the largest potential to scale because you're tapped into the biggest pool of potential buyers. Okay? Uh and again, most people just kind of talk to the same segments over and over and over again. All right. Now, there's a couple videos that are out there on unaware ads and I went through and I watched them all and there's a lot of really good things in them and and I would recommend that you you go and watch those. But I went I wanted to pull some of the different quotes just to really land uh how important unaware ads are and why they're so important. I think it's interesting to hear it from so many different voices. So, for example, here unaware ads have been the greatest ads we've been able to scale that have the most profitability in the largest markets people can scale to. Uh here's another one talking about how, you know, had an ad that we were able to spend $443,000 on that one ad. Again, I've seen this happen time and time again. 99% of drop shippers don't know what awareness levels are and 99% of drop shippers are competing and creating ads that are designed for these lower levels of awareness. Okay, most commonly solution aware through most aware. So mostly down here. Okay, again so that just shows that there's a hidden advantage to being able to to write these kinds of ads. Uh here's some more. And the reason, you know, the reason why unaware ads are so powerful is just because it's the biggest pool of potential buyers, right? The unaware market is the biggest market. You're appealing to a larger percentage of the population. um it's typically the largest segment of your total addressable market. If you can create ads that speak to this large subset that essentially taps your ads into the largest audience possible. Okay. Um the other thing that's cool is that this sort of opens up uh it opens up open up Jesus opens up your audience. So when you're talking to this unaware segment um of the population, you can then start to draw people through retargeting and and additional funnels etc through the other stages of awareness. Right? So, it really opens up a huge pool of buyers. Then, of course, we also talked about the difficulty, right? The downside of unaware ads is that they're extremely hard to crack. Uh, I can create 30 aware ads in like two hours. Unaware I can only create one or two of those every like four to five hours, right? Because I can I really got to take my time to produce a good unaware ad. And that's that's the reality. The process that I'm going to show you is hopefully going to help you to do this uh quite quite quickly. All right? So, uh but still it's going to be hard, but this is good. It's good when something is hard because it means other people are not going to do it. Um, and it means that you have this, you know, wide potential to scale. So, let's look at a couple examples of unaware ads so you can see exactly what I'm talking about. Uh, here's an example from Gundry. So, let's take >> Watch what nuts do to our body. >> Cashews. >> Cashews are not a nut. They're actually part of the poison ivy family. No way. >> Yeah. They cause burns in your gut and can actually cause skin problems. >> What about walnuts? >> Walnuts actually have >> Cool. So, we won't watch the whole thing. Uh, it basically continues to go and I think it stacks uh additional kinds of hooks and things like that, but this opening here, watch what nuts do to our body. And then we're talking about that. Um, I would qualify that as more of an unaware ad. Okay, we'll talk about some of the nuances here in just a second. Um, here's another one from grounding. Well, we'll actually look at this one. Uh, but I'll I'll leave this document and people can come access it and check it out later. Uh, so here's an example of one. Before your grandparents were born, a decision was made about your health and you were never told. In 1910, John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie funded a report that would forever reshape American and worldwide medicine. Within 25 years, half of all traditional medical schools vanished, etc., etc. talks about this Flexner report and then continues to talk about natural medicine, inflammation, and then it continues down um into finally talking about these grounding sheets, right, that kind of ground you as you sleep. So, that's another example there. Let's look at a few more here. And we're going to revisit and come back to these examples because I'm really like when I said this is a the definitive guide in the master class, um I was being like very intentional with that. I want you to watch this video and be like, I know everything I need to know about unaware ads. So, we're going to go as deep as we possibly can. So, you just have to watch this video maybe a couple times, maybe read the transcript or whatever, but you're going to know how to write these ads um going forward. Okay, so we're going to take our time with it. Uh let's look at this one. This is from uh Pup Labs. Tons of great ads in this account. I was looking through it. Tons of great ads, but uh here's an example here. >> Does your pup have floppy ears or upright ears? If you answered floppy, you could have an infected disaster right around the corner. If you answered upright, you could have a hearing loss disaster right around the corner. Either way, if you love your pup, you need to watch this. Floppy ears, upright ears, cropped ears. >> Cool. So, this is basically saying, you know, do you have does your pup have this? Does it have this? Does it have that? And that could show something, right? Sort of like a warning sign or like a hidden symptom, uh, which are pretty common for these type of ads. Then it's like, hey, there could be some sort of disaster that's that's, uh, lurking around the the corner. Um, yeah. and sort of using this general thing of like watch this. If you have this, then watch this is a really really um you know common pattern that you'll see. Um here's another one. These are two actually that I wrote as examples. They're not perfect. I would still fix them, but um I wrote these as examples based off of other real ads. So this is for a bisop one just because I want to show you different ones, right? From pet, from health, from relationship, from bizop, things like that. Um so here's an example. I just got scanned by Amazon. That's what my mom called me last week. So this is a story opening. My mom is 58 years old and she's never been good with technology. Like, she still calls me when she can't figure out her TV remote. So, when I told her I wanted to set something up on her phone that might make her make her some extra money, she looked at me like I was trying to scam her. That was 8 months ago. Last week, she called me panicking. She said there's $900 in her bank account from Amazon and she didn't buy anything. She thought someone hacked her account. She thought she was in trouble. I had to calm her down and remind her mom that's the Audible thing. It's still running. She literally forgot it existed. Here's what I set up for her. So, for those of you that don't know, Audible is actually owned by Amazon, etc., etc. And then it goes and and continues to talk about this. Okay. And this is the original OG ad um on here which is you know kind of more problem maybe solution aware. Um but this is an opening here with a story. Okay. So pretty cool. It's just like people are going to get kind of sucked in by the story and then they're going to want to keep reading and then boom, they'll find it. Um here's another one. This is for relationships. My Uber driver said five words that changed my view on men. I was going home alone again. Third Saturday in a row. He asked if I was okay. I told him I just got ghosted by a guy I really liked. He went quiet for a second. Then he said, "You're asking me the wrong question." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "There's a question women ask men that kills everything every time. And most women have no idea they're doing it. I don't love the copy here. I don't like this like weird staccato stuff that's going on, but just pay attention to the overall idea, right? This, especially the opening." I thought it was crazy, but then he explained it and realized I'd never uh asked that exact question to the last four guys I dated right before they all pulled away. Here's the thing. There's a four-word question you should absolutely never ask a man if you want him to be your boyfriend, your husband, anything beyond a hookup who vanishes and you never hear from again. The question is blank blank blank. Okay. And this is the OG ad uh version here, which you guys can also check out. Okay. And that's a Chris Chris Hadad ad originally. So those are some examples of unaware ads. Like I said, you can get this document just by kind of signing up on the email list below. Um and then you can check this out and look at those. All right, so let's go a little bit deeper. Now that you have kind of a sense of what these unaware ads are, let's start to go deeper into the underlying mechanics. So again, an unaware ad targets people who don't know they have a problem. They're not searching for solutions. They're not even thinking about the topic. You're interrupting their day with something that makes them care about something they didn't know they should care about. Okay? They're not searching. They're not comparing options, etc. This is the unaware prospect. So how do you reach someone who isn't looking? You lead with something. Pay attention to this. That's high curiosity. So all of these unaware ads are very high curiosity and low to medium relevance. Okay, we're going to continue to talk about this point because it's really really really important and very subtle. Okay, and these are difficult. So I want to make sure that we we land this here. So high curiosity and then low medium uh relevance. So what do we mean by that? Um well let's look at this one. So this one or let's look at this one. This is high curiosity, right? because we're talking about this this report that basically reshaped American and worldwide medicine, right? So, that's kind of interesting. And the other thing is uh it has relevance. So, there's natural curiosity because it's sort of this conspiracy cover up, but there's natural relevance because it's saying it forever reshaped American and worldwide medicine. Now, without telling the prospect, hey, this is going to help you get this is going to fix your heart health or this is going to fix your inflammation. This is going to fix your joints, right? they can start to connect the dots and at least feel like there may be something of interest for me here. Okay? But it's very subtle. If we said, "Hey, they did something that's going to affect your joint pain." Only people who are conscious of joint pain or heart health or whatever are going to pay attention to the ad. But when we say it reshaped American and worldwide medicine, again, we're opening it up to now they're starting to think, well, everyone, you know, is concerned about their health, especially this demographic, so maybe I should read a little bit more. So it combines curiosity with just a little bit of relevance in the terms of a potential opportunity or in words of a potential uh pain point. Okay, even if you look at this relationship one, my Uber driver said five words that changed my view on men. So it could be like my Uber said five words that changed my life. That would appeal to anyone and has natural curiosity. But when we say change my view on men and we know that we're targeting still targeting women who want to work on their relationship, right? Change my view on men promises something. It promises an insight, a change in a worldview or something like that that is going to be relevant to them, but it's not so strict and so specific that it's like my Uber driver said five words that help me get my ex back. Okay? Even if that's the specific promise of the of the product, right? So, we're ch we're paying attention to that. I'm going to continue to to highlight this and point this out as we go forward. Uh because it's it's so so key. It's it's this is this is the trick of writing these types of ads. Okay. So, anyway, you lead with something that's high curiosity and low to medium relevance. Okay, so this could be a pain, a promise, or a reference. Then you pay off that initial hook and then you lead them into a deeper problem mechanism and transition to your product. Okay, and you do not mention the product in the opening. Here's a few more quotes that I thought were really good and and relevant. Uh, your job when you're making unaware ads is to make an ad that basically takes someone who's just randomly scrolling through their feeds, right? They see your video, they get hooked in, then they're locked in watching it, and then you basically through storytelling and through your messaging, you get them to believe they have a problem, and then you, you know, sell them on the solution. Okay. uh here you need to first educate that the problem exists. Then you need to explain how bad it is. Uh then you basically tell them walk them through all the other stages of awareness. Um and then when we write the first sentence of our unaware adent should have nothing to do with the product. Okay. So just so you see some different perspectives and ideas on here. All right. So let's go a little bit deeper. Remember what I said curiosity. So, let's say this is this is I'm going to put curiosity in uh let's put curiosity in blue and relevance which will be a pain or a promise, right? That's going to be in green. I just want to show you this. So, my Uber driver said five words. We already said that this is curiosity here. And here we have change my view on men. And we already talked about how they can do the math in their head to be like, well, you know, maybe this is an insight that's worth me knowing because I'm sort of struggling with men, right? The thing about uh unaware ads that's really important to to understand is that unaware ads usually live kind of right here, right? They live actually right here between unaware and a problem aware. And you'll notice this as we go forward. Some are just pure raw curiosity unaware. But typically for any of these unaware ads to work, they do need to touch something that's relevant. Some sort of latent desire, some sort of general fear or pain. And what you're really trying to do is you're trying to take let's say pain for instance you're trying to take their vague sense of pain and really intensify it to be like yes you know you feel kind of like sore when you wake up in the morning but you don't actually know that that's a sign of inflammation which could be damaging your heart etc etc right we're really like emphasizing and intensifying the pain. We're also making it more crystallized. Right? So like you know maybe they notice that their dog chews on their paws a little bit but then you're going to come out the gate and be like no like um pay attention because that's actually something really important. and we're sharpening uh this idea in their head. So, you're always tapping into some latent desire or a latent pain point. There's always some energy that's already operating there. And what we're trying to do is trying to intensify it and sharpen it as much as possible through curiosity to then make them in turn them into a problem aware or solution aware person. Right? So, um that's one thing that can be confusing about unaware is like typically you are still tapping into a little bit of pain or a little bit of a a desire that they have. It's just that it's not super clear, right? So again, here, change my view on men. The reason that we're talking about that is because this is going to tap into our our demographic, right? Still people who we could possibly sell to and they're going to understand that if I change my view on men, maybe that gives me an insight that increases my success with them. Okay? Again, I know this is a little bit confusing and very I'm going very in the weeds, but this is the kind of stuff that you really need to think about uh to write ads that work, right? And hopefully I impress upon you how important it is so you feel motivated to do it and how hard it is so you understand why we have to go to this level of detail. So let's go a little bit more. I just got scammed by Amazon. Right? This is just natural natural curiosity here. Right? So this should be in blue. Natural curiosity because it's just a story. You're just kind of interested in the gossip. Right? And that's how my mom called me last week. So honestly this is really just pure curiosity. there's not really anything in here that's going to uh make this feel like this is relevant to me making money or something like that. And sometimes that's the risk that you take. You just send it. You're like raw curiosity. Now, in let's say Facebook ads for instance, you have the opportunity to use um headlines. You have the opportunity to use visuals and you have the opportunity to use this body copy, right? Or static images if that's what you're doing. Okay? So, you can play around with the format. And what that allows you to do is it allows you to do things that are a little bit more relevant, right? So you could be like, I just got scammed by Amazon. That's how my mom called me last week. Uh and you could say um easiest side hustle in the world as like a headline or something like that. Um and that's a way to sort of combine this curiosity and this relevance. Anyway, so here's another one. Uh does your dog uh does your pup have floppy ears or upright ears? This is just pure pure curiosity here, right? They probably never even thought about, you know, their dog's ears and how that could be uh important. If you answered floppy, you could have an infected disaster right around the corner. Interesting, right? So, uh here's another one. In 1910, John D. Rockefeller under uh funded a report that would forever reshape American medicine. So, again, this is just the raw curiosity. And here we have a little bit of relevance to them. And you'll see, I mean, obviously these things are blurry together, but I just want to point out these two aspects so you can start to understand. Here's another one. Watch what nuts do. It's just pure curiosity. And then to our body, right? To our body is super super interesting. Uh, let me just show you something real quick. I'll type this out. I thought I had it in here, but I realized I don't. So, what onions do to your body? What onions Okay. What I want you to pay attention to right here is seeing how much more specific. So the level of specificity that we go through in terms of uh our relevance. Okay. So this part here what onions do to you. So that's relevant. But see how open and general and vague it is to your body, to your health, to your blood sugar, to your neuropathy. Do you see how in each case here we're getting more and more specific as we sort of move down the funnel where this was, you know, this would definitely be deeply in problem aware or even solution aware territory. Okay. Um, so it's a spectrum going from unaware to problem aware. That's sort of a spectrum that we have right here. and you have to make a decision on what's enough relevance because what onions do to you is like yeah may have some curiosity and people will click it but so it's so open-ended that there may not be enough energy to really stick people to want to watch it and read it. Okay, that's the gambit and the risk that you take. That's why your curiosity element has to be so strong, right? But you get to kind of sprinkle in a little bit of relevancy by saying what onions do to your body, what nuts do to your body. It's like okay, well if I'm sick or I'm in the health market, I'm concerned and conscious about my body. So, it's not super narrow narrow to my neuropathy, but I'm still going to be interested. Health is more specific, blood sugar is more specific, neuropathy is more specific. So, you get to decide where you want to try to kind of draw that line in the relevance. Understanding there's a trade-off sometimes between if it's more specific, it's going to go to the more people and they're going to be more naturally interested, but it's more narrow, right? So, when you open it up, you get more people, but you have to be really careful and make sure your curiosity curiosity element is strong. Okay? Hopefully, I'm uh explaining this uh clearly. I spent a lot of time really trying to make this as simple as possible, but um hopefully I'm I'm doing that. You can let me know in the comments. All right, so again, how they compare to other styles of ads. So most aware is typically they just know your product and need the offer. Product aware, they know your product, but they're not convinced. So you need to build value and differentiate. Solutions, they know solutions exist, but not yours or your category. So you want to position your product or product type as the best option. Problem aware, they know they have a problem, but they don't know solutions exist. You need to articulate the problem sharply. Then introduce your solution type. and then unaware they don't know they have a problem or they have it but aren't thinking about it. You need to capture attention etc etc. Okay so that's what we're focused on. Um so hopefully you know you've seen some examples of unaware ads you understand why they're important. Uh you get you're starting to get a little bit of sense of how they use curiosity and relevance to really work together. So let's talk about how you can start to write unaware ads. Okay let's talk about the process to write unaware ads. So there's sort of four things that I think are the are are the best. So the first is just follow the most common types. There are tried and and true proven methods and categories and types of ads that fall in the unaware category that typically work over and over and over again. So, if I'm working on a brand new account u as a creative strategist or I'm looking at my own account, I'm just going to go through the list and be like, let me just send some of these different styles of ads. Okay? Again, uh one theme that you'll hear in all the videos and one thing I'll remind you of is unaware ads come from deep research. deeply understanding your market and demographic, deeply understanding their worldview, deeply understanding the the conversations that they're having, the things that they're talking about. We'll talk more about that in a second. Okay. However, so so everything is nuanced and it's going to come from your research. But again, these proven types, they've worked so many different times and they work in almost every market that I like running through a list and being like, let me do a type like this, a type like this, a type like this. Let me get some data, see what people are are responding to, and then we'll move from there. Okay. So, the first is we have uh paradoxes. I have a whole video on my channel around paradoxical questions that you can find as well as bots and stuff like that. I've talked in in depth about these and they're one of the most powerful type of unaware ads that you can do. Another one is lost wisdom or forgotten remedy, right? People naturally have there's something called like the naturalistic fallacy or um uh there's another word for it too, but people have a general sense or belief or want to believe that things were better in the past, right? Garden of Eden type stuff. So because that's a sort of a natural cognitive bias that um people have, you can always appeal to that by talking about oh there was this sup there was this like hidden uh remedy right that these tribes used or the Amish used or whatever right there's some sort of forgotten remedy that people don't know right the Amish have some sort of love trick that they can do again it seems silly but it's like it it'll work right uh you know especially works for health markets but I believe you can do it in almost any kind of market uh imaginable okay then you have conspiracy right you'd be surprised especially Americans, Americans are very conspiratorial people, right? So, if you're working in the US market, uh you could always appeal to some sort of conspiracy and you can play with how much or how little that you do with this, right? People don't want to lean into conspiracy oftentimes because they're afraid, oh, my market won't really believe that or it's too unbelievable or whatever. But, um I think pe most people would be surprised at um how well people respond to the sort of conspiratorial type of angles. Okay. Uh the warning sign is a really classic one, right? um if you do these three things or if you experience this or this specific symptom, that's a warning sign. Uh ever other ones are everyday threats. Sometimes I call them surprising culprit, right? The one thing in your bathroom that's doing this or what your toothpaste is up to or something like that. Uh stories of course are unbeatable, right? Any kind of story that you can use. Uh another one is just sort of a big win. Okay, a big win. So just whatever. Uh this was actually I think in this video here he talks about those as one of his styles. I think Nick and then uh in this video he he talks I forgot his name. He talks about um sort of the opposite of that and both of those are really good. I call them big horror or big win. So the way that Nick explained big win is basically it's the benefit behind the benefit. All you do is you look at okay um this grounding sheet affects uh joint pain and and if you fix your joint pain you're allowed to basically be a super senior who can run marathons, right? So how this 78-year-old woman was able to climb Mount Kilamanjaro or something like that, right? So you just look at the big big wind and you create a picture of that, right? And then you can also do the opposite which is the big horror, right? So typically whenever you're doing ads, there's the good side and the bad side and you want to paint both of those. Okay? Um so the big horror, the other one is symptom call out. This is sort of like the warning sign one, but you're you're pointing to more neutral uh symptoms and then kind of painting them as problems. And then you look at the sacred cow, right? So, this is basically beliefs that people have um about the market. Either beliefs that uh they used to believe that now they're they beat up, right? So, let's say you're talking to like a keto market and they used to believe that uh carbs or fat was bad, but now they know fat is good. So, you can basically, you know, make an ad that would appeal to that and vindicate their own belief. Or, um let's say they're in the the keto market and they think you can't have, you know, this many this many carbs on keto, right? You could do one that sort of shakes up their belief and a little more contrarian and you could do something like um you know they said you can't eat blank on keto. Well, that's not actually true, right? So, there's a lot of stuff that you can you can do there. Uh if we go back to our original examples here, you'll see that like this my Uber driver said five words that change my view on men. That's a story. This other one is a story. This one is more of a warning sign. This is more of an everyday threat and this is a conspiracy one. Right? Just to kind of bring it home so you can start to understand. So there are other categories for sure. Um people have different names and and whatever. But in general, these 10 will give you a lot of coverage in terms of the types of unaware ads that you can start doing, right? So you can ask yourself, what's the worst possible thing that could happen if my person doesn't solve this problem? How do I dimensionalize that? That could be my big horror. Uh what about a big win? Right? What would be the the the benefit behind the benefit behind the benefit? And how do I paint a vivid picture of that? Okay. Uh what is a specific symptom that will show them this? what are beliefs that they have that I can either validate or contradict. Uh how can I tell a story about this? What's an everyday threat that's related, etc. Okay, so there's a lot of stuff in there. Now, I put on here pro tip, which is that there are specific sort of like triggers that almost always work when you're doing unaware ads. People just always respond to them. So, when you mention NASA or Harvard or Nobel Prize, people typically always respond to that. They also respond to exotic things, right? what the Japanese do or people in you know the Swiss or monks you have uh you know Norway you have uh tribes and things like that you have the Amish. So anytime that you sort of talk about these like exotic or tribal or or past type of people there's just an innate curiosity that people have about that. If you remember what we said up here uh typically your curiosity needs to be super super strong. So you can leverage some of this inbuilt curiosity. People care about the mafia and CIA and stuff like that. Okay. So think about movies and things that people like to watch. Um, think about the associations. People think of Swiss, they think of like pristine, clear, whatever. When they think of uh, Japan, they think of like longevity and a certain kind of culture, Amish, like very connected to the earth, salt of the earth kind of people. So what you want to do is you want to leverage those connotations people have and leverage the innate curiosity. There's other ones, of course, ancient Egyptians, Victorian doctors, Chinese medicine, elite performers like Navy Seals, astronauts, NASA is a really big one, right? Hopefully NASA's on here. Yeah. Um, blue zones and things like that. This is not an exhaustive list. There's there's tons of other examples, but hopefully this sort of can trigger it, right? So, typically if I'm going to sit down and be like, I'm going to write an ad. Um, let me write an ad about how, you know, the CIA or the FBI or the Soviets or whatever, somebody had some sort of conspiracy. Uh, lost wisdom. Let me talk about some tribes or some some old folk wisdom that did whatever. Let me talk about how NASA does something. Let me do some paradoxical questions, etc. Some big stories. And then you just try and see what resonates with your market. Ideally, you understand them so deeply that you can really make strong predictions about this. Um, and you're paying attention to comments and everything else. But that's really what you want to focus on. Okay. The next thing that is really, really powerful is basically when you're writing an unaware ad, and uh, one of the videos mentioned this uh, that I I have linked above. when you when you're writing an unaware ad, you're not just competing with other ads, you're competing with all the content that's on the internet, right? And as you know, like there's a huge saturation of content right now. Um, and it's just more and more and more and more, right? So, you're competing for attention uh sort of in that zone. Well, one of the easiest things that you can do is you can just find organic hooks that are already working just on a pure attention basis. And then you can use those hooks as your unaware ads and then do everything else I'm about to show you to write an amazing ad. And this is a really really high leveraged thing that you can do. So the the first thing you do is you find high signal individuals. So uh you find accounts or doctors or people who have some sort of influence uh and they also sort of think ahead of the curve. Not too far that they're often fringe territory, but just enough ahead of the curve that it's interesting, insightful, and people are are interested. Uh but it's still mass market enough that you can appeal to a wide variety of people. Uh, and then what you do is I like to have a separate Instagram account and you just start uh start sort of following accounts that go into it. So if it's an alternative health, you find a couple alternative health accounts. Um, you watch a bunch of their videos. You especially go and look on their account uh for their most popular videos and you just keep watching it and eventually the algorithm is going to start serving you at or uh videos that are similar to that. And every time it does, you just watch them all the way through. You open up the comments, you open up the tab, just engage with it so the algorithm knows, "Oh, I want to see more of this." And eventually you do it and you start to cook your account until everything that you're getting in your newsfeed are these types of of angles. So whenever you need to sit down and write something, right? And what you're trying to do, by the way, is you're trying to put yourself in the exact shoes and recreate an algorithm of your prospect. Right? Now again, your your segment, you may have a bunch of segments or prospects or people you talk to, but you just pick one or two or sort of some intersection of them that feels like the biggest amount. And then you just put yourself in their shoes and you're like, I'm going to basically, you know, try to make my algorithm as much as what their algor algorithm would look like. Obviously, theirs is going to be different and unique because they have different interests, but like if they only cared about this one problem, what would their algorithm look like? And now when you go and you need to write an ad, you just open up your phone and you just, you know, swipe through a bunch of whatever and you find the hooks that work and then you figure out how to connect them to everything else that you're doing. Okay? And one level beyond that, what I like to do is as new accounts start popping up um in my feed, I'll click on the account and I'll just scan and I'll look at what is kind of the overall um what's the overall uh like views that their videos get and then what are the outliers. Okay? And again, you know, there's metrics and rules for this, but just use common sense, right? If they're getting 50,000 views on average, 70,000 views on average, and a few of their videos have millions of views, go look at that. And what's amazing is you can open the comments. It's great market research to see what people are responding to. In fact, you could find new angles in those comments. Um, but just look at the hook, swipe that hook, do variations on that hook, and then connect everything else I'm about to show you, and you have an amazing uh unaware ad ideas, right? The next one is we use something that's called worldview porn. Right? So, what do I mean by this? This is a little bit more sophisticated. Um, I think it's probably something that very few people talk about, but I think it's it's super important. So, one thing that you can do is uh with unaware ads, um, because we're trying to get so much natural curiosity, one thing we can do to create that curiosity is just make conversation about people's worldview. Okay? So what I mean by that is if they're in an alternative health market, they may already have beliefs that doctors lie to you or health is this or they may believe in make America healthy again or something like that, right? If they're a dating market and it's a younger audience, they may have beliefs. They may have been raised on Andrew Tate. They may be raised on red pill content. Uh they may have those kinds of beliefs. You're talking to Christian entrepreneurs. They're raised in, you know, non-denominational Christian sort of cultures and values. They have a a mission and an ethos to them, right? So, what you're doing is you're talking to the worldview of your demographic, right? And so, you're trying to identify what's the worldview of my demographic that's relevant to what I'm doing and let me write ads that are are relevant to them. Okay? The reason I call this worldview porn is just to be provocative, but it's also because um oftent times what you're trying to do is you're not trying to like really stimulate real debate or even try to get at the truth, as bad as that sounds. What you're trying to do is you're trying to validate their own beliefs through a kind of almost like flattery or you're trying to look at the the points of tension and debate or the the conflict in their worldview and make ads around that. So either good, you're right, I'm going to validate you or bad, here's something that you might not know about. Okay, I'll show you some examples in just a second. This is can be a little bit tricky, but it's very very very very powerful and it literally gives you endless possibilities for ads. Okay. Now, here's a Blair Warren quote, which many people quote, which I like a lot. People do anything for those who encourage their dreams, justify their failures, allay their fears, confirm their suspicions, and help them throw rocks at their enemies. So, again, if this is um an alternative health market and their enemies are big pharma, then throw rocks at big pharma, and then you can connect it back to whatever product you want, right? You're just confirming their suspicions and throwing rocks at their enemies. Okay? If it's the the dating market, right? Maybe they confirm their suspicions that Tinder and Bumble and whatever is against them, right? So, you write ads that sort of confirm that. Right? Now, I added some other ones on here because this is great, but it's not exhaustive. So, I gave some some additional, you know, quotes that you can look at. People do anything for those who give them a mission to join. Make them feel understood. Give them clear answers when things feel uncertain and give them an identity to be proud of. Again, people do anything for those who give them permission to want. Let them into the VIP room. Turn confusion into clarity and point out who's beneath them. Okay? So again, all of those core desires are listed here in those quotes. So superiority, clarity, exclusivity, permission, certainty, understanding, hope, etc. So uh for example, for permission, right? You should want to get rich. If you're talking to like Bisop or people who want to start a business, you should want to get rich. You give them permission to want to get rich. If you watch Jeremy Haynes contents or stuff like that, a lot of them talk so bluntly about getting rich. Even uh Evolve, right, the the the ecom company, they talk about getting rich, right? which is typically something that most people shy away from, but you're giving them permission to want that and it's really really resonates uh with people. Okay. So again, the reason I'm talking about this is because instead of going from the mindset of like here's a pain, here's a promise. They're trying to get this. What you're trying to do is you're stepping a couple layers back and you're saying, "Let me look at my my avatar, really know them, and let me get a sense of what is their worldview." Okay? What's their ontology? We'll talk I'll make a video about that later, but what's their worldview? and how can I either look at the ongoing discussions and debates about why this happens or what causes this or whatever and kind of stir the pot a little bit, right? And how can I validate and just basically flatter them that you were right all along because everyone wants to be right. Okay? And then I find a way to transition to my product, which you can do with anything. When you master this, it literally gives you infinite ads. So just think about this. Unaware ads make the most money, but this process that I just told you allows you to unlock infinite variety of them. This right here is the gold mine for any business or any creative strategist in here. It is not easy. Requires work. But once you know your market well enough, you can spit these things out over and over and over again. Okay. Uh let me show some quick examples. So uh in 1910, John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie funded a report that would forever reshape American worldwide medicine. We'll go deeper in here, but just know that people who are interested in this market are interested in alternative health and already have this belief that John D. Rockefeller and you know Andrew Carnegie but mostly Rockefeller is the devil and Illuminati and boom, right? So like they want to believe this. You're confirming their suspicions. Um here's another example. They ask this would be more for like moms, right? Stay at home. What what do you do even do all day? Like keeping a tiny human alive, fed, and emotionally regulated isn't infinitely harder than sending emails in a climate controlled office, right? So this is just validating them as a person, as a mom, right? You're diminished and demeaned because you stay at home all day. So, we're just validating that. Uh, here's another one that would be more for like a millennial male, right? Or or woman. Like, boomers bought houses on a single income with a high school diploma. Now, you need a master's degree and two roommates just to rent a onebedroom, right? And again, this could connect to a financial services product. This could connect to a bisop. This could connect to a productivity offer, right? This could connect to a mindset offer. This could connect to a self-development personal development app. Right? There's always a way to make this connection. But what you're doing is you're tapping into the world view, right? And something that's going to get them get them going. And if you look at all the best content, that's what it does. It stirs people up, right, through controversy or it confirms a view that they have, right? And people want to be on the cutting edge. So when you understand your market and you understand where they're at, you can kind of, you know, push them with some insight a little bit and validate them and make them feel like they're superior to other people. Okay? This is just this is the nature of how this stuff works and it's being done to you, by the way. Um, this would be more for like a prepper market, conservative. Remember 2020 when the grocery stores emptied out overnight? Nobody called you paranoid then, did they? Funny how that works. Okay, now I'm not saying these are all the best openings to ads. Although, I do think you could probably open ads with this. Um, but it's sort of the general message and then you would have to maybe tweak the hook to really make it land. Okay, so hopefully that makes sense as well. Again, we're talking about all the different ways for you to come up with um unaware ads. So, we talked about the most common types, talked about stealing organic hooks, we talked about focusing on worldview porn, and then we'll talk about one last one, uh, which is using what I call vectors of winning angles. This is very, very simple. All it is is you're looking at patterns, pattern recognition. So, you collect what's working e, you know, if you have winning ads or winning unaware ads, great. You start with those. And if you don't, you just look at what are the hooks that are trending organically. And then you use your brain. Very important. Think about it. Think about it because you're a human and you're way more aware of what's relevant than AI is currently in the moment but you can still use AI as a tool and you use your brain and AI and you ask why is this working for this demographic and you have a conversation back and forth to steer it in the right direction. Okay. Then what you do and you say what are the patterns in here right? Oh people are responding to anything that sort of puts down big pharma. Okay. So then you say, what are all the possible vectors? Meaning, what are all the possible ways that I can expand on these patterns? If they're, you know, a pattern is that they talk about negatively about big pharma, how can I view more ads that talk negatively about big pharma? Or if I see there's a lot of story ads that are sort of validating their experience about being a mom and how hard it is. So maybe that's actually what's making this work. So that's a winning message. How can I double down and test new angles and new unaware ads that just focus on that emotion, right? Or maybe I noticed that, you know, two out of five of these winning unaware angles sort of start with they lied to you about X, right? Or they have a sort of question question answer structure, right? So maybe actually my audience is just really responding. They really like this syntax, this uh question and answer dialogue. How can I do more ads that are like that? Okay. Oh, my my audience is really responding to this type of ad around warning signs. How can I do more warning signs? Okay. So again, there's no right or wrong answer. You have to use your use your judgment. But using your brain plus experience and AI will help you to get new ideas. And this allows you to open up and expand the market even more, right? Because you're pulling from organic of what's working. You're pulling from competitors. You're pulling from your own admin inventory. You have a proven toolkit of principles that are working. And then you're using your brain and AI to make judgment to open up tons and tons of new ones. And again, some of these ads can literally change your business. If you just have one of these ads, it can do hundreds of thousands of spend. And if you have 10 of these ads, it just opens it up even more. So mastering this skill either in your business or as a creative strategist is huge, huge, huge, huge, huge. All right, let's talk about the structure of an unaware ad. Okay, this is just a basic reference. At the end of the day, just make it make sense. I I know that seems like trit because people want structure, but it's like look, the copy should be as long as it needs to be. Sometimes it can be very long, like longer than you would even think. People will complain about it being long, but they'll buy from it all day. or sometimes it can be very very short and very very simple. All right? So, what I'm going to show you is just a general guideline. Um, but it's not a it's not a perfect science. But in general, what you want to do is you want to open with a hook. Then you want to pay off that hook immediately because that's what they're they're interested in. And then typically through that payoff, you're going to transition them into your mechanism. Okay? From your mechanism, which is typically explaining the why behind the problem, then you're going to transition to the solution, right? and you're going to bring them all the way to wanting a solution to the unique solution. So, you're walking them through the stages of awareness basically. Then you're going to uh take them from that and you're going to talk about your product and why yours is better. And then you're going to give them reasons to buy right now. That's basically the structure of that. And then throughout this, you want to use open loops. So language like this is the part nobody understands. This is the missing piece. This is the part that will piss you off. The reason you do that is to stick them and keep them stuck in the ad because especially right here uh is sort of this like transition period between, you know, they clicked on your ad because they're interested in something curiosity invoking, right? Uh and then you're going to pay that off, but then you want to talk about how there's a deeper problem. Now, hopefully you did enough work in your hook and your payoff that they feel like there's something of consequence for me to keep reading. Um but typically this is the friction point where people are like I just I just came because I wanted to understand this flex report right I didn't want to understand grounding. So you know using open loops right here in this transition is going to be really really helpful. I'll show you of an example. Actually we'll look at this grounding while ad. So in 1910 John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie funded a report that would forever reshape American medicine. Within 25 years all these medical schools vanished. Only schools that promoted drugs and surgery remained. That's the hook. Little bit longer as you can see. And then here's the payoff. So we're explaining what this report is. It was 1910. It's called the Flexner report. It audited every medical school across America. Concluded only scientific medicine, scientific. Look how we put scientific in in quotes here, right? Which is sort of flattering their worldview, which sometimes thinks science is untrustworthy. Everything else is quackery, dangerous, unscientific. Within 25 years, the destruction was massive. The schools that made it, those who agreed to teach phic pharmaceutical medicine only. And here's the part that'll make your blood boil. Right? Okay, so here's an open loop that's keeping this moving. John D. Rockefeller, uh, he backed this. Why would an oil baron care so deeply about medical schools? Because the same petroleum that built his empire also became the foundation of the pharmaceutical industry. He didn't just create medical schools. He created a system that turned the human body into a profit center for the next hundred years. Here's what they learned before. After the Flexner report, it was all gone. Today, your doctor has two avail tools available. Prescribe a drug, recommend surgery, whatever. Now, we see an open loop. Here's what nobody ever mentions. and we go into the mechanism. So, we talked about the Flexner report and then we're saying one of the things that was eliminated was electrical medicine. Um, now your doctor's never heard about electrical medicine. So, when somebody brings up grounding, they dismiss it instantly. So, now we've gone from uh, you know, basically this whole the payoff of this report to talking about all of these different problems that are here and connecting it to our mechanism around grounding. Um, cool. And so now hopefully we're like, if now you might be wondering if grounding is so important, can't I just go outside barefoot, right? So now we basically they're interested in the solution. We've we've taken them from, hey, here's this problem. You're electrically disconnected, right? Here's the possibility of when you're connected, you can have all these benefits. So now they're like, okay, I'm interested in grounding. So now we're going to try to get them to go from grounding to wanting to buy these sheets. So you might be wondering, if grounding is so important, can't I just go outside barefoot? Good question. And yes, walking on barefoot on grass, dirt or sand does help you, but there are three major problems. Then we go through the three major problems. Okay. Uh then we talk about um why we need consistent grounding, right? [snorts] And then we say there's one company I trust. So now we're going into uh it makes sense to get these sheets. Then they go into their specific product. Uh and then here, you know, hopefully there's some risk reversal guarantee um discounts or stuff like that. They don't really talk about those, but um that's okay, right? So, this will just show you an example. Again, there's a million different ways to skin the cat. No ad is going to be the same. You want to do what's relevant to your market and what's relevant to your idea and let that lead the way. Uh but this just shows you a basic structure and an example of what these ads can look like. Okay? So, hopefully that makes sense. And you know, as I pointed out, you see some of these open loops that help get people through those sticky points. Okay? Here's some other examples that are a little more classical like they laughed when I sat down at the piano or the two young men uh Lististerine Halattosis one. Again, you you can go through and look at these. These are some classic examples of unaware ads uh through the ages that may sort of give you some some new ideas, but let's just go through the summary. So again, unaware ads are ads that teach people who don't know they have a problem. They're not searching, not comparing options, not thinking about a category at all. You interrupt their scroll with something so interesting they have to keep watching. Then you make them aware of a problem and transition to your product. It matters because the unaware market is the biggest market. Most advertisers only target aware prospects. Okay. But when you can uh open up the market, you can crack uh a much bigger segment. Okay. Um the core principle, we didn't really talk too much about this, but the core principle is every hook opens a gap. Okay? And typically it's going to be either a good possibility related to you or a bad danger that you weren't aware of or a good you were right about your worldview or here's something that you were wrong about maybe in your worldview. Right? These are sort of the four overall buckets. I didn't go too deep into this because it's a little more advanced. I don't want to confuse anybody but for those who are interested um maybe this will help you. Right? As sort of the four major buckets that you could look at. We talked about the 10 different hook types in here. We talked about the overall structure and we talked about the ways to generate hooks as well as uh some of the triggers that always work. Okay, so hopefully you can use this guide and you found it valuable for writing unaware ads. I recommend that you watch these videos as well because this is such a powerful powerful skill um that you can learn. That's all I have. If you found this interesting, please leave a comment below and especially let me know what other kinds of videos you would like to see. I want to make stuff that's actually relevant to you and really really helpful. Um, I believe that this is probably one of the most powerful tools that you could do, which is why I decided to make this video. But I want to know what you want help with. Again, thank you so much for uh for watching. I hope you subscribe, like these videos, and get ready for many, many more. Thank you. Bye.