Guess Jason Flatlin is living proof. Jason is an extraordinary mind. Among many accomplishments, he holds the world record for the most money brought in from a webinar. He is unmatched in his ability to persuade and influence. Though I don't recommend trying to learn NLP on your own, Jason is completely self-taught, so I can't argue with his results. Something [sighs] Jason knows well and is more important than persuasion and influence is how to dissolve the limiting beliefs that keep people from succeeding. And he's going to tell us all about it over the next hour. So, welcome Jason. Great to have you back. >> Damon, it is a pleasure to be back. >> Awesome. So, uh I remember the very first time I interviewed interviewed you for this YouTube channel. We were going into persuasion and influence and as we talked we started to lean into more and more beliefs and I wasn't surprised by that but I didn't know that that was an area that you focus on and again doesn't surprise me that you do because beliefs are so powerful and you do a lot of consulting so I imagine you're dealing with some extraordinarily successful people and even them I'm sure you come across they have some limiting beliefs about what they're capable of or what their potential potential is or what the potential is to to go even further. So, I'm really curious uh if you have any stories about that and then how do you deal with that? >> Yeah, we all have limiting beliefs. It's uh part of the hardware that we're born with which is the brain mostly dictates unfortunately and limits significantly what our capabilities are. uh because the brain has certain biases, fallacies, limitations. It only has so many circuits in which it can fire off and interpret and understand the world. So, show me a person that doesn't have a limiting beliefs and I will show you somebody who's dead. So, whatever we're at, there's a physics that's pushing back against us. And the way we grow is to figure out how to deal with that friction and that resistance. So often times people will see me publicly facing audiences. You I've reached hundreds of thousands of people in an audience where literally we're trying to get them to decide if they should buy a product or not. So this is an intense public display of some of the strategies we'll break down here today with tens of millions of dollars on the line. And even more important to me is I just encounter this too often to count people who are connected to the right idea that would be the best thing for them and they're resistant towards it. And our goal really in business is to help people who would benefit more from owning the product to get them to understand that and then to get them to invest in the product instead of investing in not having the product which is an investment and is often more costly to the wrong person. So, I do this publicly and people see that and then privately with clients, some of which are the biggest names in the space. I got this shirt on. It's kind of a joke. It says the guru to your guru. Um, I generally advise people that advise the rest of the world. And we deal with limitations more than anything. In fact, the number one thing I think everybody could take away from this immediately is one of my beliefs is that it's success is more about subtraction than addition. So if we can remove the things that get in the way of your success, then success becomes the natural outcome. So we don't have to improve capabilities so much as remove limitations. And so with clients, the number one thing we analyze and look at is how can this fail and then how can we stop that event from occurring and then success becomes the natural byproduct. So so many people are looking to add skills, strategies, capabilities, and they don't remove the baggage along the way. So they're climbing taller mountains, but they're still carrying around unnecessary weight. If we remove the weight, then climbing the mountain becomes easy. But in order to counteract that, people say, "I'll just climb a taller mountain." And then they put more weight on their shoulders. So we, you know, we work on that. It's fun. >> Can you give us a what? I know you can't give names but can you give more of a specific example of uh everything that you were just describing? >> Yeah, I will. Uh, every single client to a fault has this limitation where they think there's a certain cut off point in which you should have interactions when it comes to marketing. Um, and they are artificially constrained. So they will say we only want to sell for an hour and a half 90 minutes because the drop off is significant after a certain amount of time people will disconnect. Um and so their limiting belief there is there's a diminishing return on the time you spent with audience and their their evidence is well look at the number of people who quit showing up. But it's funny because if you truly understand the exactness of it, if we have a campaign, I had a campaign with a client that had a million people go through the funnel. And before we sat down, I said to the client, I said, "Well, what's your target? How happy would you be in order to call this success?" And they said, "Well, if we were to sell 7,000 units of our product, then we would be very happy because they were selling the product for $2,000." This is a $14 million thing. So, think about it. 500,000 people, 7,000 buy. that means 900 or that means 493,000 don't buy. So this natural state of the market is to not to buy. So if we can influence just a thousand out of those half a million to buy, we can significantly increase the profitability of that launch. And that would mean that we're going those extra hours each day for those few people that otherwise wouldn't say yes, not for the many people who are probably going to say no anyway. So I have to remove this limitation that it should only be this long and that going beyond this isn't very useful and everybody that I talk to is constrained in that way. They have this limitation but the reality is if you really want to build deep level rapport and connection with somebody if you spend more time with them and you work with them from different angles and perspectives they get to know more of what you're capable of. you get to understand more of what their model of reality is and then you can provide more service to them. And so that's the deeper truth. So oftentimes Damon, what I find is what really limits people is they stop at the truth and they don't realize that there's a deeper truth underneath the truth. And our goal is to find the deepest truth possible and that's usually again with subtraction as opposed to addition. So I have to deal with that. I'll give you one more too. very often in the business world and we could talk about all kinds of other fields besides business where this applies but this is like my area of expertise in terms of the results that I've gotten in the business world people are very conscious of I got to show everything before I ask for the order. So I got to show you what I get what you get here and what you get there and this thing and that thing and what the guarantee is and what the scarcity is and what the risk is involved. So they'll tell you the whole thing and then they'll say now go here and buy. uh and I find that not very effective because again if the natural state is to say no I want to get the no early. So I will show show the least amount of information necessary to get the few who are ready to buy immediately tell them to go buy no most people are not going to buy and then that's when the real selling begins and so I save my best stuff for the end. So if I start with a no I can end with a yes but if I show you everything and then I have a no where do I go from there? And this is psychologically very uncomfortable for a lot of my clients. And some of them I can't get them past this because they have this lack of confidence. And I'm talking about some people who who are making a hund00 million or more generating sometimes in excess of a billion dollars. And they feel very uncomfortable with the idea of asking somebody for for money without showing them everything first. And then they they validate it because they say, "Well, look at all these people that leave when I drop the call to action." And that's a truth. >> But the deeper truth is people like a sense of completion who are not the right fit. And a sense of completion is now I've seen everything. I know where the URL is. I checked it out. Now I get a bounce. But that isn't the deeper truth. The deeper truth is most people when confronted with a serious decision that is incredibly empowering to them, they're going to naturally be overwhelmed with it. Like change is scary because it's different than what you're used to. And so overwhelm is one of the ways you respond to that. So if I don't allow you to go through the process of overwhelm and then from that gain understanding, I'm not serving you. And so this is another limitation that you know I've worked with a couple billionaires and we still fight this limitation with them and sometimes I can't get them into an emotional state Damon where they feel comfortable doing that. So then we go in the toolbox and we say okay there are other strategies as well and the more strategies you have to deal with limiting the limiting beliefs the more effective you can become. So I'm getting a lot of parallels uh to this to uh more personal work that I do with with individuals uh not just like uh stuff that you would find in business. So one of the things that struck me by what you were just saying is like this this idea that I have to put everything out there before I ask for the sale. I see a clear parallel where people believe they must prove to the world that they are worthy, that they are deserving, that they're good enough before they can have the things that they want. And that is such that is such a big limiting belief that I when I work with people, I have to chunk that down to smaller beliefs and go at them um at smaller levels because it's such an enormous uh limiting belief that they've probably been carrying around from a very young age. So, I'm curious like how do we bring this into the the world that probably most of our listeners and our our audience is in? They're in >> Yeah. >> they're in they're in a career and maybe they it's not a bad career. It's a decent career, but they're not really fulfilled. They're not really happy. They feel underleveraged. They feel like they don't they have more potential than what they're uh fulfilling, but they have that sense of like, well, I somehow have to prove something else or new to show myself in the world that I'm deserving and that I'm worthy. How would you then take what you were just talking about and apply it to that? >> Yeah, great question. So, I like to think of first principles as much as possible, which is the minimum amount of necessary information to exact the change. And so, one of the first principle models is micro macro. So on a micro level, if I'm dealing with an individual, I get feedback. So I can observe that individual and I can have interactions based on and test and validate or invalidate for that individual specifically. Which tool in the toolkit should I use first? When it comes to helping them overcome a limiting belief uh on a macro sense, when I'm dealing with an audience, it's a different approach. There's advantages that I can use in macro that I can't use in micro. there's advantages that I can use in micro that I can't use in macro. So, it's good for you to immediately understand if you're working with clients, am I working on a micro basis or a macro basis? Because if I was working with an individual, I would use the most powerful question I've ever learned in NLP, which is how do you know that? >> So, if somebody says to me, um, you know, I need to accomplish X before I feel worthy in the world or I have to do all this stuff in order to feel worthy. I said, how do you know that? How do you know that this will allow you to feel worthy? How do you know that worthiness only comes as a result of this? And this is called eliciting the model of reality. And on an individual level, it's really fun because you ask a lot of questions. You listen a lot more than you talk. On a macro level, you talk a lot more than you listen because you don't have the immediate feedback in front of you because you're speaking to a market. You're not speaking to an individual. So, I would want to know how they would know that. I would say, well, gee, if this is what it requires for you to be worthy, like what's the evidence that allowed them to create that belief? And then we will analyze that evidence and see if it makes sense or if it doesn't make sense. And it's really fun. So, this is a pattern. And by the way, if you want to get really good at this, find the pattern. So, this is an if then statement pattern. If I have this, then I become worthy. Uh and generally speaking, if this then that doesn't work very good for beliefs. It works good for math, but it doesn't work very good for beliefs. We see this with a confidence lof all the time. When I get this result, then I will be confident. Well, then how will you ever get that result? If it requires confidence first before you can take action on it, you are screwed. You have created a bind that you can escape from. So, is it possible that confidence comes from somewhere else other than getting a result? Maybe. Would you be open to the idea that perhaps confidence could be attained in other ways than results? Possibly, right? And then you could start working through that. The number one thing that we generally do, we'll try to put doubt inside of a limiting belief to crack it. So, it's similar to how a foundation if you start cracking the foundation of a home, the whole home will fall down. If we can get the belief to collapse by making them uncertain of something that they are certain of, then we can get leverage. And so, this is the thing that I would love to know. Well, what is worthiness exactly to you? Cuz all of us define things differently. So if somebody says, "I need to feel worthy." Boom. You're now worthy. Tell me what life is like. And they're like, often times they can't explain it to you. They're like, "Uh, okay. So you want to be worthy, but you don't know what worthy even is. Do you see how that can be a problem?" And then they're like, "Uh, [laughter] yeah." So chunking down can be a fabulous one of the many tools that are in the toolkit. Okay. We don't you're not going to ever be worthy for the next hundred years because you got to put a hundred years in before you're worthy. So how can you be 0.1% more worthy tomorrow than you are today? And now we we have a what we call a bias towards action. And this is something that I want everybody to learn and understand is successful people if you were to model them you notice that they have a bias towards action. And so people who are stuck will say things like I need to think about it. And I will say to those people, well, what's the first thing that you would think about? And often you will get the same response almost all the time. Uh, you know, if somebody says, I'm not confident, what percent of confidence would you need to move forward? So, this is presumptive that there is a solution that can get them past the limitation that they face. If somebody says, I'm afraid of rejection, I would say, how could you get rejected tomorrow in a way that would empower you? Uh, so bias towards action. We take whatever we're giving and we find utility in this. And this is at the cornerstone of what I've learned in NLP that has been so useful to me is every belief has utility in it. Every belief, whether it's powering or whether it's limiting. So the the utility of well I need to have these things happen before I feel worthy is the utility of protection. I feel unsafe currently with taking these actions to get this result. being safe is useful. It has its place. If we remove the safety, then that person isn't going to shift that belief. So, we have to either allow them to take what's useful about the limiting belief and then update their model of reality to be more empowering or we got to find ways to prioritize other values that are more important for that individual. Um, so this is, you know, high level stuff. Of course, we can break down any of the science involved. I have some examples, too, that I I prepped that we can pick apart in the real world of how I do this with clients. Okay, before we do that, so I always find it amazing when we have these conversations because >> we're uh I don't I don't think you watch my videos and I've never I have Well, we did a little coaching at one time uh both back and forth just to kind of >> see, but like you're you're saying things that like are exact things that I say, but it it kind of makes sense because you're well acquainted with uh NLP. And so we I asked some of those same questions with my clients that you're talking about, but I think uh I want to try something I haven't tried with you before. And that is to tap into your spiritual background just a bit here. >> And I'm not quite sure this question will do it, but I'm going to take a crack at it. What you said about confidence is, yeah, I have that conversation all the time. Well, I got to have confidence before I do something. I was like, well, no, you don't. Like, you realize you learned how to tie your shoes, you learned a language, you learned how to walk. Never had confidence in doing that. We do. We probably do uh more if you're well let's say if you're you know 20 years old you have done more in your life without confidence. You've accomplished more than with confidence at at that point. Maybe later in life that can change. So what [clears throat] do you think that is? And I think this is where it kind of taps into your spiritual background a little bit. Maybe maybe it won't. But this idea of sort of not having a self-concept or ego at stake. Therefore, I don't need confidence. I just go and do it. I don't need to prove myself worthy of love. I just go and ask for it. Or, you know, I don't have to even consider deservingness. Uh because there is no such thing. There's no there's no person in up there keeping score on who's worthy, who's deserving, who's good enough. So any what do you think about that as far as not needing confidence at all because we don't have a real person or or entity here that's at stake? >> Well, I think confidence is incredibly valuable and having confidence is tremendous in certain situations. So we go back to utility. When is it useful? When isn't it useful? It's not useful if you're waiting for it to occur in a bind that is unfulfillable. then it's completely useless. Uh confidence is incredibly useful if you look at an audience and say, "I have the exact thing that I know can change you because I'm so [ __ ] prepared and I'm going to do what it takes." I just had a real go viral because I'm starting to do this social media stuff, uh Damon, and it's it's got like 300,000 views in the last four days, and it's me teaching this clothes on stage at a martial arts event, teaching to martial arts owners. And I was on this three-day tour where I went to and I spoke at a mortgage brokers convention and then I went to Mexico and spoke at a mastermind for business owners and then I went to Scottsdale, Arizona. So I went from Dallas to Mexico uh to you know Tulum and then I went to Scottsdale and by that third speech in the span of like five days I threw out the rule book and just said give me your challenges and I will close right on the stage. I have a whole the YouTube videos out there of me on my channel actually doing this. And one of the things that my editor clipped and made into a real was this close that I use where it's like, you give me one step, I'll give you 10. If I have to throw you over my shoulders kicking and screaming and drag you across the finish line, I will. Right? And that is confidence at its finest degree. and to to an audience that I serve. I am so overprepared and I have so many reps that I've put in and I have so many results and I have such a degree of mastery over my knowledge set that I have confidence and people respond to confidence disproportionately higher than they should. [laughter] You know, the word confidence comes from confidence men shortened to conmen, right? Uh so confidence is a hack to get people to do what you want even if they don't want to do it. Now we use it for good, not for evil. Um, so confidence can be incredibly useful. Confidence is dangerous if you motivate somebody to run in the wrong direction. They will confidently run away from their goals faster than if they did nothing. So confidence has utility. So we try to find in cases when it's useful and in cases when we don't necessarily need to rely on it and what are some other states that we can do to help you move forward and get some results with. So that's kind of some foundation stuff. Now because I was a monk from the age of 20 to 24, uh I was a Hari Krishna monk and I I don't do things with half measures. I kind of go in uh it's a blessing and it's a curse all at the same time. So I would generally meditate two to four hours a day formally and then do two to four hours a day of other meditation, book reading, scripture, that kind of stuff. And then I would work on my music because I that was what I thought I was going to change the world with. Um, and it's really interesting because the the primary text that we would study is the Bogavita. And it's it's a master class now that I've learned all this marketing, NLP, business, psychology stuff. And I can see why it is one of the most popular texts in the entire world. So like let's take a look at it. The scene starts on a battlefield, the battlefield of Curricetra. So the stakes are already high and it's story formatted. One of the best ways you can break beliefs is to tell stories. Stories are so powerful. We can loop back and get into those in a second here. Now here's what's interesting because I've studied a lot of hypnosis. So this is another tool in the toolkit. The story doesn't start with Krishna and Arjuna having a conversation although that's the majority of it. Arjuna is the warrior warrior. Krishna is the chariot charioter meaning he takes him on his chariot. He's the servant of Arjuna in this sense. He's his friend and he's a servant and he's also God. I'm like, I didn't know that was a thing, you know, coming from a western world that God can be a friend. It doesn't have to just be this authority. But that's the other stake. But it doesn't start there. It t it starts with somebody else explaining the scene to somebody else and then inside of that. So we call these nested stories. One of the coolest things about using technology like nested stories is people have trouble following consciously the frames and the information directly. So indirectly and subconsciously they start to accept things that normally they would reject. So we have this problem with patterns. If I try something and it doesn't work and I do that a couple times, not even that many times, like three usually, then I conclude, well, this pattern is the final end all beall, and I will never be able to get past it. Uh, and so this is the conscious mind at work. Well, you know, I've attempted to approach women. They've always rejected me, so therefore, I can't get women. And really, they approached five women. Their their technique was terrible. They got rejected as they should. uh and now they're screwed. So if you say, "Let me show you a new technique." They're going to be like, "It doesn't work because consciously I'm finding ways to invalidate it." But if you're telling stories, then subconsciously people are more receptable to the information that is useful to them and particularly empowering to them. So it has a story and it has a story within a story and actually the Bavagita is a story within a story because it's just a chapter in another book called the Mahabarata. So we have a story and a story within a story and then it's also indirect. So this is the power of stories is Arjuna is asking Krishna what to do because he's on this battlefield his family's on the other side. He knows a bunch of people are going to die and he doesn't want to fight anymore. He says I'm overwhelmed. I'm now looking for you for guidance. So Krishna is not telling you what to do. He's telling Arjuna what to do. So indirect communication is one of the most powerful ways that you can help somebody get past a limiting belief. I do this with my kids all the time. I have three kids, 15, 13, and 12. Uh, and they're beautiful and they're wonderful and I love them to death. And oh my god, are they gigantic pains in the asses that cause me more grief on a daily basis than any other factor in my entire life. [laughter] >> I know how that is. >> Yeah. And so if I tell them you need to clean your room, that's not going to probably land. But if I say part of the key of a nice, happy, harmonious household is having rooms that are clean, uh, then it helps more. If I have one issue for a child in particular at the dinner table when we're all eating, if I in general explain concepts that are not pointed at any individual child, then they don't elicit a feeling of reactive kind of push back and you can slip in things more indirectly. I love indirection. Um, so you have that. You also have gradualization. So it starts with concepts like duty and action and responsibility. But then it goes deeper. There's that famous line that Oenheimer quotes. I am become death destroyer of all. Right? So it gets very deep, gets very philosophical. It provides multiple paths. There's karma yoga. There's bakti yoga. There's janna yoga. So there's there's action and reaction. That's karma yoga. There's bakti yoga which is a service. Um so act of service for liberation of the material binds and then there's Ghana which is knowledgebased. So he doesn't give just one path to a conclusion. He gives multiple options. Uh and then at the end and this is beautiful. It's u chapter 18 63 actually where he says he basically says I've given you all the most confidential of knowledge. Deliberate on it and then do as you wish. So he empowers the user to make the decision once he's set up the conditions that will allow the user to make the decision that best serves them. Um so I'm reading this and I'm understanding this and this not even um consciously but intuitively and so from a spiritual background I am now able to have another mental model in which I can assess a situation. So Charlie Mer was one of the richest people in this world. He passed away recently. He was like Warren Buffett's adviser and right-hand man and best friend. And Charlie Mer was this he's so big on these mental models. And the more mental models you have from a variety of different uh disciplines, the better and more accurately you are to uh assess your reality. So NLP has this concept of the map is not the territory. If you have a map and it's shrunk down in size, obviously it's not the territory because it's a smaller representation of the territory. If it's 2D and it doesn't show topographical features, everything looks the same height. But if you're in Southern California where there's a lot of mountains, that's not the case. Uh so all of us have a map of reality. Uh it's not the territory of reality. And most of us have limited maps. We don't have enough maps and we don't have maps with different details in them that we can pull out and look at for different situations. And so one of the powerful things about mental models is having these maps. So having a spiritual background, I have a mental model. And part of that mental mo model is realizing the impermanence of reality in the material world. And therefore there's less attachment to my own personal results in that world. There's a much longer time horizon. And we use time all the time to shift beliefs. And we can totally get into that as well. And so if you change a time horizon and you look back 80 years into the future, is the [ __ ] that you're worried about today even worth worrying about? Uh 99.9% of the decisions you make are inconsequential to the grand scheme of where you want to go. And so it's hard to understand that because generally you are experiencing your pain in the present and only in the present. And so therefore it's hard to understand it from a future tense looking back. And you get stuck in that way, too. Time is a hell of a way that gets people stuck. Most people don't grow for 20 years. They live one year and they repeat it 20 times. >> Yeah, I 100% agree with you on the time factor. There's a lot of different places we could go with this. Uh so time is one of two dimensions in which we process reality. And that's one of the things that makes it uh so powerful. >> And one of the things that is very NLP is known for is what we call NLP amnesia. you know, we can do uh solve a major problem and then the person goes on not believing they ever had that problem. And I've had I've encountered that so many times with clients and even my own wife who, you know, I helped her, I coached her through something and then later, you know, I brought it up and she was like, I I didn't really have a problem with that. And I was like, you cried your eyes out. What are you talking about? But you can build into their timeline, bring to their attention that >> shifting their attention another direction that it's almost like they never had it. >> Um, but it was there. We don't delete it. um it's just it sort of gets outframed by more information and then it seems like oh it was never any big deal. The other way that I'll use it is I'll pile on time. Say, "Okay, if you don't change and you keep doing things the way that you're doing, where are you going to be in 10 years?" And they're like, "Oh my god." And I say, "What about 20? What about 30?" And this is where we get into like people thinking that if they wait that somehow time is suspended until they figure things out, which of course is not true. >> So, uh, I'd be curious, um, how do you use time? uh either I mean I imagine this could be so useful too when you're you're selling uh something you could you know just same same thing that I kind of just mentioned there that like well how you know if you don't get this how long you want to suffer with this problem. >> Yeah. >> Um and then also well I'm curious how how how do you use time to get people past their limitations? >> Yeah. So a simple mental model for time is past, present and future. So the three tens of time. Um so and then remember my other model which is everything is useful under certain circumstances. So utility. So I call this empowering and limiting. So this is the binary state of any state. So what's useful about the past that we can integrate? What's limiting about the past? What's useful about the present? What's limiting about the present? What's useful about the future? What's limiting about the future? So let's look at the past first. Um, everybody has accomplished far more than they give themselves credit for. And that's a that is a generalization. And I generally don't use generalizations when I use language. So, and this is an Ericson thing where you he talks about you walked into the classroom the first day and you notice these weird things that look like hieroglyphics above the chalkboard and you discover that these were letters. And if you put these letters together in certain ways, they created words. And if you string the right amount of words together, they become sentences. And from sentences, poetry can come and blah blah blah. Right? So, you learn to walk, you've learned to talk. Um, you were able really any formal instruction. You picked up a language which is incredibly complicated. Um, it's just insane. Within you, there's technology that you've already accessed that is still more powerful than the most powerful computers that ever exist. And so unfortunately most people they treat the past as a school uh not as a school but as a burden I should say this is a Jim Ran quote uh they treat the past as a burden not as a school and what we want to do is we want to look into the past and bring to the present what has been useful for it that can help us with the current situation that we're in. And by the way failure is an incredibly useful thing to bring into the present. It's like great now we know what not to do. [laughter] uh let's bring in the experience of that failure and leverage that to help us in the present circumstance. Now unfortunately most people the past significantly limits them uh because they create patterns you know every time I do this that happens every time I do this that happens uh they rely on memories and generally the worst memories are the ones that are easily the most vivid with the least amount of effort. So PTSD, which I've had uh in my life and been diagnosed with, what's really interesting, if you take people with PTSD, they did this experience. They experiment. They took these soldiers who came back from the battlefield and they had them when they got home immediately write down in a journal what their experiences were. And then 20 years later, they asked them again. And then they compared the reporting of these memories with the actual memories that they wrote down at the time just after they got off the battlefield. Here's what they discovered. The people without PTSD, they were very inaccurate about reporting those memories many years later. They got so much they got most things wrong because memories are not snapshots you pull out of a drawer and look at. You recreate a memory. What you're hap what's happening to you in the present will affect how you pull up past memories. >> Absolutely. You will change your past in your memories depending upon your current present state in the setting around which you're experiencing that present state. Okay. But uh here's what's interesting. The only people that really truly get super highly accurate reports of the past memories many years later are people that are traumatized because they're still living in the past. >> They're very very accurate. They're incredibly talented at bringing up imagery which is scary and intense. And that's generally how our brains work is we have to prioritize survival naturally. We have to work to override this survival tendency. Survive at all costs, conserve all resources at all costs, be lazy because laziness is useful for survival so we can keep our energy and then fight the tiger if we have to. Um, so we're still running on very outdated hardware. Um, so what we want to do is be able to if we're going to use memories, we can adjust the recall of the memories and we can be fairer to ourselves. So if we know out of the box we're more prone to pull up memories that are terrible because that's a survival mechanism even if it doesn't serve us, we have to also find a way to pull and grab from the past what is useful. And then I and then ideally if we can churn down some of the stuff from the past that limits us and churn up some of the stuff that empowers us, we can do really good. So that's the past. And a lot of people live in the past and so they get the results they got in the past. Makes sense, doesn't it? If I live in the past, in the present, my future will be my past. Oh yes, that that nets out if you really study it. So take now the present. Um the more miserable you feel the less time you want to spend in the present. So you will escape to the fantasy of the future. You will scroll through timelines uh algorithms. You will you will rem reminisce over the past and make it better than it was to escape the present. So there's not a lot of utility to that. Uh so the challenge is if you are limited the last place you want to be is in the present because the present doesn't feel very good when you're limited. Uh so we in the present prioritizes the saving of resources. So I need to be lazy now so I can go and acquire food later on when I get hungry. So I must conserve all my calories because I was a caveman not very long ago on the time horizon of how we've developed as human beings. Here's the other problem with the present. All growth requires discomfort at some level. So you have to break something in order for something to grow or you have to change something or you have to shift something. So perhaps not all growth, but a majority of growth requires initial discomfort. Um so oftentimes the way we deal with this is we make the discomfort of staying the same more painful than the discomfort of change. So instead of trying to overcome and fight that discomfort, we just allow them to compare it to the alternative, which is the discomfort of staying the same because you never stay the same. You decay. You get worse and worse and worse. So you have to actually fight against the law of entropy in order to grow. But growth is is almost always initially uncomfortable. If I wanted to learn these skills, I first have to make time for them. And nobody has an open schedule. Everybody acts to fill every time available with something. and then they habituate it. So I have to break a habit, find time available that I didn't previously allocate for it and then I have to go through the process of learning something and first we learn consciously and we're incompetent and that is very difficult. It's very uncomfortable and then eventually we become unconsciously competent and that's effortless. And so being lazy is useful initially but over the long period of time it is more costly than the pain of creating a new habit but it's tough. So people will resist that. Um here's another thing about the present. People mistake feelings for identity all the time. So they say I'm sad. You feel sad. You are not sad. If you identify and create the identity of sadness you you you are limited. Uh so you are not a failure. You failed at that task. But generally people will identify with their present emotion and then that is dangerous because if you are a failure that means why would you act? It wouldn't make sense for you to act. I wouldn't want you to act if you were a failure. If I was trying to sell you success and you were a failure I wouldn't want to make that sale. But I know you are not a failure. You may feel failure now and that is healthy if appropriately uh felt but that is not who you are as an individual. And so this is the challenge of the present. Now the great thing about the present is you can change states in the present immediately and you can help people change states. Uh if you ever go to a Tony Robbins event, uh he's like the greatest practitioner of this in the entire world in my opinion. Uh he's having you dance and jump on chairs and there's music playing in the background and he's eventually it all culminates into a firewalk and even Oprah gains confidence in a firewalk. Right? So the present is great because if you are a skilled practitioner you can change any physiological state in the present. Uh you can take somebody who's suicidal and you can get them to laugh. It's actually pretty easy if you know the if you know the process. U and then you can get them to associate certain feelings towards the change they want and you can get them to take the feelings that they had towards that change and actually apply that to what they're currently doing instead like swish patterns and you can do all that cool stuff, right? Um so this is the present. So the usefulness of it is it allows us to create a state change. The the limitation of it is generally people who need the change the most want to be in the present the least. Uh the presence is by the way generally where the most happiness is found. So a lot of successful entrepreneurs that I work with, they all operate from a place of scarcity. I need to have this. I don't have this now. I will go acquire it. So they're highly productive. They achieve a lot and they're still empty. This is generally the case with the people that I work with. >> Majority of my clients too. >> Yeah. So they're future orientated to a fault. Um, but presence is being able to look at a beautiful sunset and marvel in how amazing it is >> and to savor like savoring only happens in the present. And I can bring somebody's attention and awareness to the present and allow them to reorientate with some of the miracles that occur all around us on a daily basis that somehow we've we've started to ignore and because we've habituated other things instead. And so this is what's so great about the present. Presence is like the best state to be in. This is why meditation is so powerful. U is because it can bring you into the present and you can live in a state of gratitude. Um so the future the future is here's the challenge of the future. It's completely abstract and generally most people are not very good out of the box when dealing with abstraction. U geniuses tend to be really good at abstractions but geniuses are the exception. They are not the rule. So abstraction is I have to take a concept that doesn't exist in reality and somehow bring it to reality. It's freaking crazy if you think about it, right? Like this is insane. Damon has to think of an idea like I want to communicate and build on a YouTube channel to help reach other people with NLP training. And then he brings it into a reality and he has 182,000 subscribers which is a lot of people and he's reached millions of people that started as an idea in a present state and then it came to reality in the future. So that's abstraction. Uh here's a fun scenario all of you. It's not very fun. It's funny what I think is fun. So let me ask you to do this. I want you to picture the the age in which you think you will die. [laughter] I've already thought about this quite a bit. >> Yeah, me too. As I've get older, I think about this a lot more. Uh, let's just say that you're going to say, "Well, I'm going to die at 85." Okay, fantastic. So, you die at 85. Now, let me ask you what life is like when you're 84. And most people most people will see themselves perfectly ha healthy at 84. Like, not too not too much diminishment in quality of life. and then all of a sudden they wake up at 85 and then they die. But the reality is very different than that. Uh especially if you don't take care of yourself. Death is a slow gradual descent into a pain that's so overwhelming that death is preferred over living. And it doesn't happen very quickly. Like unfortunately my father passed away at the end of last year like two months ago. >> Yeah. Yeah. And it's been very difficult and I've had a lot of trouble dealing with it because grief is such a powerful emotional state. >> But I mean he had a stroke during COVID in 2020 and so for 5 years I watched him die slowly every single day. Um and so when death did happen it it was peace. Uh and it you as difficult as it was it was better than the alternative. And this was a man who would go out and run 10 miles a day for most of the most of my life when I grew up around him. Um, and just incredibly driven and now he's bedridden and now he can't use his left hand because he had a stroke in his left arm and everything unraveled but not all at once. And it became, you know, this is this is reality. It's good for us to acknowledge reality without it overwhelming us. Um, but generally people have a very big difficulty with the future because it doesn't exist yet. Maybe it does. Like I'm not going to get into physics and quantum physics because I I would disagree that there's a reality where the future, the present, and the past are all occurring simultaneously. But let's not get that geeky. Okay. Um now, if you ask people to visualize in general, this is an underdeveloped muscle. So they're not very good at it. So visualization is seeing without seeing, hearing without sound, feeling without touch. Um, this is why guided meditation and hypnosis is such a powerful modality. When I sell, I use a lot of conversational hypnosis. This is why the word imagine is one of the greatest words in your vocabulary if you want to be a change agent because you're not telling them to do it. You're just asking them to imagine it and that is a hypnotic command. Um, so this is and this is the other limitation with future. Uh, generally growth is exponential but we look at it linearly. So we think if I work really hard every year I will get 10% better and then in 10 years I will be 100% better. Doesn't work that way right? Year number one you will work really hard and you will get like 0.1% better and then year number two you will get.5% better. Year number three you will get 2% better. And then year number four you will get 170,000% better. Right? Like I'm exaggerating for effect but this is the idea of compounding over time. And so doubling a penny in 30 days, if you double it each day, it becomes $5 million. Um, so we do not understand exponential. And so we don't get how the future can be exponential. We don't get how if we memorized 50 sales closes over the next six months, we will become one of the top salespeople of the entire world because the first 20 sales closes that we memorize, they will be difficult. uh we will try to use them we will fail and they are necessary but they are insufficient to the bigger goal uh but then comes a tipping point eventually that breaks everything through on a YouTube basis if we want to talk social media you create your first 10020 videos and you don't get much traction and then all the sudden you start getting traction and it doesn't go from a,000 views to 1,500 views to 2,000 views to 2,500 views to 3,000 views. It goes from a thousand views to a hundred thousand views >> seemingly overnight. But the reality is it's the result of compounding over a period of time and upleveling and upleveling and upleveling. So people have trouble with this in the future. Um so what's useful about the future? It is it's the strongest motivator possible if you properly utilize it. Um, it is uh, Men's Search for Meaning, Victor Frankle, one of the greatest books that's ever written. >> I reference it all the time. It's so interesting that you're bringing that up. >> That's funny, right? So, so like if you listen to enough of us and you get enough exposure, you will you will see the patterns and then that will tell you don't do all this other stuff, just focus on this stuff. Right. >> So, those who have a Y can live through and can bear almost anyhow. Um and you know it's oh it's it's very tough. So what they discovered in concentration camps is the people that survive that are most likely to survive was those who still felt responsible to something or someone in the future. And so this is a future orientation. So the why is the greatest lever to ever exist in change. Give me a why and I can move the world. Right? Um and this is leverage. So future is the why and we can tap into that and then we can create more motivation from the future than ever possible. Um you know so you know when I became a monk my spiritual master who came over from India and created a whole new religion from scratch uh at the very beginning they asked him uh how are you going to build all these temples and this is what he said he goes these temples already exist the only thing that separates us from them is time and I'm like this is one of the greatest insights I've ever heard in my life he could see the future so clearly in the present that it became inevitable so what we do is we build for ourselves And for others, a vision of the future that is so compelling and so vivid that we don't even see the past behind us and we don't even notice the doubts and the friction that would normally hold us back because we are so magnetized and drawn to the future that there is no other option. And so this is the power of the future. And so when I work with clients, one of the things that I do is orientate them and use all of the tense. So use the best parts about the past, help them get around the limiting parts. Same thing with the future, same thing with the present. And I also pay attention to how they have a relationship with time because different people will have different personal relationships with time. Addicts, for example, have no orientation to the future. They are so present and past orientated that it's not even funny because they don't run it through. They say if I keep smoking this crack rock. >> Uh it feels really good and it does. I I don't know. I don't know from experience but I assume right and they don't think about over the long term what that can do for them. They can't see the future. If you actually because you can do timeline elicitations and all that stuff uh you will discover that they cannot see the future at all. Um, and then some people who, man, they really get stuck and they keep doing the same stupid [ __ ] over and over and over again. They can't see the past, so they can't learn from it at all whatsoever. So, they're bound to make the same mistakes that they're always making. So, it's good to listen to people and and see how they have a relationship with time because that has the clues in what you can do to help them take the best parts of that relationship and then help them update the schema of time that currently limits them. All right, speaking of time, uh I want to make sure we get my my next question in and then we want to open it up to see if anyone has any questions and I want to brag on you a little bit here. Uh you come from very humble beginnings. You were uh a painter. You painted houses, right? >> Yep. >> Uh you were trying to launch a music career and that's what got you into trying to understand webinars and because you wanted to sell your CDs. Y >> So you came from I guess let you tell me if this is accurate. The minimum wage world. Would that be accurate? >> Uh slightly more than the minimum wage. >> Only slightly. [laughter] >> And feel free to brag here where you are now, which is like >> I don't know light years where you started. >> Okay. >> Yeah. And there are a lot of people who are watching right now who feel like maybe they're not quite at that beginning stage, but they're they're negotiating in that middle stage. And I know I I was in there for a long time, too. What was your greatest limitation that you had to overcome? And broad strokes here, how did you overcome it? >> I know it exactly. Yeah. Uh I the biggest limitation that I always have is that I never felt worthy of love. Um, which is interesting because we kind of brought this up earlier. >> Yeah. >> And a lot of it dealt with how I grew up as a child. You know, my mom was a drug addict. She went to prison for six years. >> Um, my father generally he was a workaholic, which was it was he modeled some really good behaviors for me, but he escaped from the situation. So, I'm left kind of to fend and figure this out for myself. Um, and I always took it very personal. I'm like, what did I do that caused me to not get the love that I need and the protection and the safety that was required that every child is essentially should be entitled to? That's how I interpret the world. Um, I still have those issues. There's still residues of that that I deal with on an ongoing basis. It's like weeds in a garden. Even if you do everything you can to prep the garden for success and pull the weeds, they're inevitably going to grow back. Um, so this was the biggest challenge that I had and I still have this challenge. It's, uh, you know, you and I both have Romanian wives. Um, so there's something special about a Romanian woman that will never allow you to operate at a level underneath what you're capable of. [laughter] >> A lot of truth to that. A lot of truth to that. >> It's beautiful and sometimes it's exhausting at the same time. Uh but yeah, it's like so she sees my potential way better than I see it and way more accurately and she believes in me more than I believe in myself even to this very day. Right. U so having somebody by your side that can support you is I think the best way long term that you can deal with any limitation. It's also very difficult because it's like if you want to attract that type of person in your life that has those capabilities, then you have to be an attractive person as well to be able to provide for them what they need. Um, and so this is what's good is you can develop skills that are useful in any circumstance and then you can parlay and leverage those skills to build more skills and make more connections. I talk to my kids about this all the time because I'm seeing an epidemic now where nobody reads books anymore because kids are on social media all the time and it's a shallow superficial proxy for real learning and deep thinking and deep work. So, we're fighting with them all the time and we're using everything we can to get books. I can I can help a billionaire change a belief easier than I could help my own children. Uh [laughter] there's something about familiarity. there's something about frame like we can go into all these things but the point of this is um I have worked with a multi-pronged approach to overcome some of these limitations including like EMD therapy was helpful because it allowed me to you know let go of some of the the past that um I couldn't get past and so that was a helpful modality doing all this NLP I got into it initially not to sell millions and millions of dollars of product I got into it to try to fix myself because I felt I was broken. Yeah, same. Right. Uh and then I'm like, man, I don't know how to use any of this stuff on myself, but I think I can go out there and communicate to other people, right? Uh so I did that and that worked out pretty good. But I also picked up some tricks along the way that did help me upgrade my model of reality, help me come past some of these limitations. Uh and that's really exciting, too. And I think a big part of it is again I have purpose in my life and purpose makes up for a lot of deficiencies. Purpose is the greatest alarm clock in the entire world. And so I have a purpose in which I wake up every day and I work at and I live inside of. So I experience my purpose every single day. And I also am drawn to be able to be more of who I am to fulfill more of that purpose. And if anybody's listening right now and you don't have a purpose, then your purpose is to find your purpose. So you can always have a purpose. The purpose is either I I am exploring and locating my purpose or I am living in my purpose. And that that truly helps as well. Uh and then again, religion for me has helped tremendously. Going back into it spiritually has helped me a lot. And just being in the present as we talked about is the easiest thing that I have discovered is to be more present orientated which is very difficult Damon in our work because we generally work with the most motivated most productive >> most achievement focused individuals ever uh and they're generally >> not very fulfilled. Was there one single belief that you overcame that was sort of that kind of like a separator for between where you were when you weren't where you wanted to be and then finally crossing over into that quadrant uh where you were by your definition and probably many people around you successful. >> Yeah, there wasn't right. Like it's funny because I I am authentic to a fault. Like narratively it's more attractive if you said this was the day where my life changed around. This was the moment where everything switched. And that happens. It's just not the highest probability of how change generally occurs. What happens is a variety of different events conspire together over time in the and the entanglement of all of them allows change to occur. Um, so I think really understanding and studying like Milan Ericson and learning all of his different patterns was so profound for me because it gave me more choice. And when I had more choice, I could try more things. And if I tried more things and most of them didn't work, that's okay because I could take the few things that work and integrate them into my life. And then from that I have now more capability to try even more things. And so I learned so much about how we make decisions and I learned so much about our limitations. And then I was able to through selling being able to discover more about myself by serving others. Really at the end of the day it's service at the heart of it is the happiest people I know are the ones that serve others in a way that doesn't harm themselves. And part of my updating of my limitation was I used to serve others at the expense of myself. Put myself last. >> Yeah. Very dangerous. Um and so learning how to serve others. So keeping the best parts of that, the holistic utility of service and then upgrading the other parts of my map that limited me and ultimately allowed me not to be as of service and that was significant as well. So, like learning boundaries, like learning boundaries was incredibly powerful for me. But God, when I started selling and I would see like 50 people on a webinar and they still haven't bought, but they were engaged, I would say, I'll spend another hour with 50 people. That sounds fun. Let me see if I can figure out what's stopping them from saying yes, cuz I think they should say yes. And then I'd spend an hour and that had a positive feedback. So, I would spend another hour and if that had a positive, I'd spend another hour and another hour and another hour. Um, so I learned so much by sitting there for hours and hours and hours and hours helping people make work through decisions. So making decisions and then I would take some of that stuff and be like, "Okay, I should use that myself." Uh, so like validation is one of my favorite things, Damon. Just learning to agree with everything when it comes in, no matter how absurd it is. Uh, so if like if if somebody says like, "I can't afford it." Uh, it's really good that you're being conscious of your investments. You know, I don't have the time. I see you place a high value on your time, right? You know, I've tried many things in the past and they failed. Your persistence is impressive, right? I bite my nails. Which nail do you bite first? Right. I'm like, I want to know the strategy that you're using. Do you like is it is it there's a rule set or do you randomly bite nails? I'm very interested in this, right? It's it's fascinating. You know, I overthink everything. I bet you overthink overthinking as well, don't you? You know, so like validation as a superpower is great. So I validate myself whereas before I would invalidate myself. I would work in ways to undermine who I was and then I became less of who I am. Mhm. Also want to say for those who don't know uh you're an authority on Zig Ziggler, his uh teaching and the one quote that stands out for me the most u that when sales started to really get good and fun for me was the one that he says about you can have everything you want if you help other people get what they want. What a beautiful >> Yep. way to approach sales because that's exactly, you know, when sales is at its best, that's what's happening. You're helping each other out. That's just, you know, that's basically what's happening. Man, does that feel good. You that's >> it's very motivating. >> All right, let's uh let's get to some questions here. Um let's see. I see one here. It says, "How to manage limiting beliefs when you associate those beliefs with the behaviors, reactions of others?" >> Yeah. So, we don't want to manage limiting beliefs ideally, right? I want you to mismanaging your limiting beliefs. Yeah. I want you to be really poor at hanging on to your limiting beliefs because then you might discover that there's other things that you can manage that are even better for you. But to try to answer the question more specifically to what the spirit is of it. So, how do you manage limiting beliefs when you associate those beliefs with the behaviors, reactions of the others? um like what value do you get from the reactions and the behaviors of others? Because there's obviously something useful to you there that's important to you. So I had a client once who said she was afraid of public speaking and when I elicited her model of reality, I discovered that she would only feel comfortable speaking if she could see everybody's face in the crowd. And so she really she needed facial expressions to clue her in on whether or not she was saying the right stuff. And I thought, "Holy [ __ ] I would be scared out of my mind if I were to speak in front of a thousand people and I had to read every face in the crowd." That only makes sense that the logical conclusion is to be terrified. Like this there's this is useful. I'm glad that we know how you are gauging other people's reactions in order to inform if you're on the right track or not. And then we'd have to figure out. So, this is fun. And this is what I did with her. I said, "Okay, so say you're at dinner and there's six people there and you're having a dinner and then the seventh person shows up. Should I be scared now? Or does it eight people or is it nine people? When do I know to be afraid?" Like, does a small intimate environment become a public speech when a certain number of people are there? And if so, I want to know the exact number. Um, now again, this assumes usefulness, validity. This assumes that there's a strategy involved. This is empowering actually because we're running a process through. And then she starts to think about it and she realizes that perhaps there are better cues to determine if she's on track or not than just people's facial expressions. And then we would work through what that model could look like. We would test it. We would validate it. And if it was great, we could use it. So I would suggest that you do the same Daniel is what what do you need from the reaction of others and their behaviors? What's useful to that? What do you get from it? How do we take the best parts of that? And if there are parts of that that currently don't empower you, what are some of the other alternatives we can use to get the same sort of feedback? Um, in general, I will tell anybody, um, I generally try not to use other people's reactions as a map for the decisions that I make. [laughter] >> It'll drive you crazy. You'll become schizophrenic if you're constantly looking around to that. Yeah. You got to you got to release that. >> Yeah. And if I'm going to do it, who should I rely on? Like, I want to rely on the people that can help and empower me and give me the proper feedback possible. Exactly. >> But yeah, it's it's difficult if you are relying especially on the feedback from strangers who you will never meet to make decisions on how you should live your life based on their principles or lack thereof. Uh so yeah, it's a good one though. I like that. >> So uh someone here says, "How to erase bad past memories in order to projecting I guess a prospering future or prospering in the future." >> Yeah, it's we again. So you're going to hear me say the same things. Let's take the best of the past. Let's bring it and project it into the future. And let's gently g gently acknowledge and then release the parts of the past that don't necessarily serve us anymore. It's here's the thing that I learned that was incredibly useful to me in my life. Um I accept all the decisions I've made in the past, good or bad, because they are who I am now as an individual today. And so to look at the past with regret and look at the past with shame is to betray who I am and what it's made me. It's part of who I am and I don't want to >> really nice. Would you say that again? Because I think uh that's a way of talking about shame that most people don't think about. >> Yeah. Yeah. If I look on if I look on my past self with shame, then I betray who I am today because part of that shame has made me who I am today. >> That's beautiful. I I hope everybody was listening to that. >> Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. And so this is every decision you have made has led you to this point. And if you are at this point and you're looking to grow and change, we should honor every single decision decision that has led you there. There's that's beautiful. uh it's part of the human condition. And so I get very excited about the idea of if I've done it wrong, I now have the opportunity to do it differently. That's very exciting. But if I go into the past and I look at the past and I want to erase it, then to me that that is saying that I have shame towards the past or it's saying that there's something about the past that I want to pretend it doesn't exist anymore. Uh I don't necessarily want to erase the past because there's utility in the past. I just want to bring the best parts about it forward. But again, I said it earlier, if the future is compelling enough, you don't even get dragged back by the past. If you have a weight that's pulling you forward, that's heavier than the weight that's trying to pull you back, you will naturally move forward. Um I there's a sales close that I use. Uh I I talked about one of them earlier where I said, "I'll pick you up kicking, dragging, and screaming." That's one example of that. Uh, I have another sales close that I use where um I talk about how, let me see, I'm just trying to think through it. Um, I talk about the war of inertia. So, here's the thing about humans in general is they they like to stay at a state of rest. So, Isaac Newton says, "An object at rest stays at rest." Uh, unless acted on by an outside force. Well, I'm that outside force. Nice to meet you. Uh, so you know, I'll tell people like literally I'll say, um, the hardest part is getting started. You're at rest right now and I'm fighting this war against your inertia. This is why this is so incredibly hard. Uh, and then I can say like in a promotion, I can be like, I've reached a half a million people so far in this promotion and I know 490,000 of them are going to say no despite my best efforts. Um, and I know if I do this right, I might get 10,000 souls. And I can change the world with 10,000 souls. Hell, I could change the world with 5,000 souls. So, I know I'm reaching many of you and that's great, but I'm really only talking to a few of you when it comes from moving you from rest into motion. Uh, so this close this is a macro because I'm speaking to an audience, right? Um, but this is this is macro and it's really exciting if you actually analyze it right now is like we are fighting a war against inertia. So, you are fighting the war of staying exactly who you are, which is how you deal with the past the way that you do. Uh, and my goal is to do whatever I can to get you to take movement and to move into a state of doing the bias towards actions that we discovered. So, if I'm speaking to a group, I'm doing that very indirectly. And I'm using leverage. I'm saying, "Listen, there's so many people out there. Only a few of you are going to actually do it." And that's like psychology. I want to be the few. I'm different. I can speak indirectly. Like, you can be one of the 5,000 souls. I don't know. I'm And I'm enrolling them in my mission. I'm changing the world. I need you along for the ride. So, it's like now they have another cause in which that they can make a decision and say, "Yes." Uh, I'm reaching many of you, but I only know a few of you. Radical cander is such a powerful communication frame. I'm literally saying, "We're in a promotion right now. We're selling you." And nobody does that in business. So having that radical cander is super duper effective. And so these are if you were working with me as a client, I'm going to challenge you in all of these areas with radical cander so we can get to the root of the matter to really figure out what that future is. That's so compelling that you don't even think about the fast past. When I'm talking about I need 5,000 souls and I can change the world to me that is what pulls me to the future. And so even though all of my past, which is, you know, dark and difficult in a lot of different ways, that doesn't even register in my mind and in my being because I have such a compelling future that I'm being pulled towards, if that makes sense. >> Absolutely. And it it fits so well. Like I talk about parallels between what you talk about, what you teach, and coach. So similar and yet [clears throat] different. And that's why I love talking to you. Uh let's see we got someone who long kind of a long question here. What type of monk were you which you've already said Har Krishna and what insights did you have and how do you integrate you your meditation background with NLP and hypnosis? >> It's a great question. So I find so many parallels between NLP hypnosis and being a monk. It's fascinating. And again, like we were breaking down the Bavagita earlier and I'm like, "Oh, this is a fractionization technique and this is a nested story technique." And I'm like, and this stuff predates NLP and hypnosis by a very long time. Uh, but the the brilliance of being a monk is I trained myself to be able to meditate for two to four hours a day. Um, here's a funny story for you. So, my wife got into meditation again recently. She went to Joe Despensza. You know, she's all up for it. So now every day she's meditating for like 40 minutes to an hour. And and the other day I walked past, she has like the eye mask on, she's laying there with the headphones in. And I looked at her and I was so impressed. I'm like, I could never meditate for an hour straight. And then it dawned on me. I'm like, I used to meditate four hours a day. What am I talking about? You know, [laughter] and people would always tell me, I could never meditate for an hour a day, Jason. And I'm like, oh, I get it. You know, like, >> dang. You know, like I'm a vegetarian. I've been a vegetarian most of my adult life and people would say I could never give up meat. And there was a time where I could never give up meat either. Like I would say the same thing. So I'd be like, "Oh, this is very interesting." And so the best part about being a monk for me was the ability to quiet my mind and think very deeply through the practice of meditation. And I think this is a missing ingredient in so many people's lives these days. uh all the evidence stacks up that we are in a more anxious world than we've ever been in and we have more people struggling with identity than we've ever had. Um which is ironic because we are more prosperous than we've ever been at the same time as well. Uh so I I don't I 42 minutes at most as I allow myself on the phone per day. 20 two 21 minute sessions at most. Uh and I generally don't even make it. Um, my new metric that I'm optimizing for is pickup phone pickups because they show you how many times you pick up your phone a day. Uh, and I'm down to like less than 30 pickups a day, which is actually pretty impressive. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And so I I have not looked at my phone today. It's 11:11 a.m. Pacific time. Last time I looked at my phone was right before 8:00 p.m. last night. Um, and so it's been 15 hours since I've glanced at my phone. I haven't picked it up in 15 hours. And I'm reading books like deeply again like I used to do as a child and I'm going out in nature more and I'm really investing in the analog world not the digital world. And so this is really what it's about with spirituality is being connected to the source uh and being present and being grateful and then being in a move mood of service and having a purpose and how you can fulfill um the beauty of which is having a human's condition and a soul. It's amazing. Uh so this is how I think about it from the that view of prosperity. Uh now it's it's interesting because like Hindu religion generally is very different than western religion. Uh western religion is less about the upside and more about the downside. Uh so which never really appealed to me too much. The packaging wasn't quite there for me. But uh the eastern philosophy there's a lot more about the upside. Like I worship a god whose primary form that we worship is is a young boy playing carefree with cow herd girls in a remote village somewhere. Um, it's all about love. Bakti is a form of love of God and there's a divine and a masculine energy and it's beautiful and it's poetic and I'm like, I didn't know I didn't know religion could be that way. That's interesting. >> Yeah. >> That's good. Uh, someone's asking for more clarity about what you mean by utility. >> Utility. Yeah. >> So, utility is this this attitude that there is usefulness in every single behavior and if we can take that, we can do something with it. So Mel Nerken, he had a guy come into his office one day and the guy couldn't sit still and he says, "Listen, I've seen all these psychologists, all these psychiatrists, all these therapists. Nobody's ever been able to help me because I can't even sit down in a chair." And Erikson says to him, "Can you take direction as you move left?" And the guy was already moving left. So he entered his model of reality. And the guy says, "Yes, I can." And he goes, "Great. as you begin to walk and pace around the room. And he's he is now modeling his reality for every step he takes, you know, as you walk towards that wall, you may begin to experience yada yada yada. Like that's a more compliant patient if you think about it than a person who's just sitting there on a chair. Like, so there's utility. So another Ericson story is a woman comes to see him and she says, "Listen, I I have this vicious pattern. Every time I lose weight, I gain it back. Every time I lose weight, I gain it back. I can lose the weight, but I gain it back. And I typically gain back more than I lose. Eric says, "Fantastic. You're really good at gaining weight. So, we're going to start there." And so, he has her gain weight before she's allowed to lose it. And now she's begging him to lose weight. He won't let her lose it until she hits a certain number. And the pain of gaining weight has now become so great that when she loses it, she keeps it off. So, he saw usefulness >> in the gaining weight activity. And so with the finger biting example, I find usefulness in that. How do you know which finger to bite first? Like I want to know the strategy. I want to know how you make decisions. That's fascinating to me. I want to learn about compulsions because if I can model your compulsion and attach it to a holistic behavior like writing and speaking. Um I want to have a compulsion to do all the things that are great in my life that will serve me. So let me learn how somebody with OCD has a compulsion. What are the building blocks to create a compulsion? How do we remove the things that can be damaging and keep the things that are good? So, there's utility in everything. When somebody tells me, "I can't afford it." In my mind, I think, "Fantastic." They're thinking about buying it. Like, I don't look at it as a form of rejection. I don't say, "Oh, damn it. We're not going to we're not going to close them, you know?" So, there's utility. Every behavior, every belief, every state has utility. One of the ways that I sell that almost nobody does is what do you think motivates people more? Love or hate? >> I unfortunately want to say I think it's hate. >> It's hate unfortunately. Like if you look at the history of the world, most of it is bloodshed and war and pillage and terrible things and atrocity. We will work so much harder to exercise our hate than we will our love. You post one positive thing on the internet, it might get a little bit of attention. You post a negative thing on the internet, it will get a lot more attention, right? And so we are more motivated by hate. So there's utility in hate and there's utility in anger. There's a lot of limitation in it as well. And so what I do is I get people very angry at their limitations. And so therefore that is more likely to get them to change than if I get them to love what they wish they were instead. And so many people try to do the opposite. Um, but we take the hatred which is generally already on demand and easy to tap into because they have a lot of hatred going on and we just channel it and we find more useful ways in order to get something out of it. So there's a lot of utility uh in anger and hate. There's a lot of utility in sadness. There's a lot of utility every behavior every every single state has usefulness in the right circumstances. Procrastination is wonderful. I want you to procrastinate in all the ways that limit you. If you get really good at that, I don't have anything else I have to do for you. Right. So, like everything has usefulness in the right situation. That's what utility means. >> Yeah. I I've recently [clears throat] found how useful disappointment can be >> because I used to kind of just get disappointed and then I'd just be like, okay, well, all right. I'll sit around and try to, you know, think this thing through. But now I go, you know what? because I'm disappointed, I am going to do the thing, figure it out, and do it 10 times better. And that has worked incredibly well. Just like how do I turn this disappointment into something really useful, >> really transform it? So, yeah, I I know exactly what you mean. >> Let's see here. Uh, somebody asked, "Is mapping the self-concept the role of the radical future?" Um, not quite sure I understand the question. Uh, self-concept is something I teach that model. Um but uh I don't know what comes up for you when you read that question. >> I don't know what it means. Right. So I'd have to parse it more. Um and words are very inexact. >> You know the whole concept of we take language, we distort it, we delete it, we generalize it. Um so your meaning of self-concept is different than mine and I'd want to know more about it. So as mapping the self-concept, the role of the radical future. I'd also want to know what the radical future is. >> Yeah. And I would want to figure that out as well. Uh but let's for the sake of everybody listening, let's try to generalize that as best as we can. Um so mapping the self-concept. So we should know ourselves to thine own self be true. You have to know who you are. And then instead of becoming something else, you want to become more of who you are at your very best. Um, if you're trying to be something different than you currently are, that is operating from lack, which is not not useful in this situation, right? If you're becoming more of who you are when you are you at your very best, that is coming from abundance. So, the frame of abundance versus scarcity is a very powerful mental model. And so if we know who we are at our best and that's our self-concept, then we can create a future where more of of who you are can show up. And that's what I do a lot with clients. Um, and that's what I do when I sell clients on that concept, too, is I get them to identify truly with who they are at the deepest level. And then we say, "How would that person act and move forward in a way that would serve them?" And then they're like, "Oh, I get it." Because if you're like, "So, here's a simple framework in business is people look at things as investments or cost." The reality is there's only investments. There's no cost. There's good investments and there's bad investments. But generally, people will look at the cost of something and not consider the investment of it. And this is a limiting way. But if you get to the deeper level of who they are and they understand the deeper truth is everything is an investment. Then they behave in ways that are better for them. They'll realize that doing nothing is an investment and it's just a poor investment. Then they'll realize they have to do something different or something new. So then the question is is is do you invest money and time in this thing that I have for you or an alternative? And that's the deeper truth. But if somebody's stuck on the superficial self, then they won't think beyond like immediate cost. They won't think about second order and third order effects that will occur. If I do this, then this opens up new doors that were previously closed. Uh that kind of stuff. Uh so figure out exactly who you are at your deepest level and then figure out what that future self would be doing. And this concept of future self is so powerful. The clearer you are about your future self, the sooner you can bring it into the present. >> Absolutely. That's uh where we get into the swish pattern, ideal self and swishing. Uh let's see, one or two more questions here. Hey Jason, do you think being obsessed with traveling to a certain place counts as purpose or just a goal? [sighs] >> I mean, is the place internal or is it external? [laughter] >> Uh yeah. So here's the thing about success and really happiness in any other language you want to put around it is again the simplest mental model here is set and setting. So set is your mindset and setting is the environment that surrounds you and those two are interlin. What I have discovered for most people setting seems to be at least immediately more influential than set than mindset. Um, you know, you put you put one person who is struggling with their weight in a room with four people who are super fit and then they hang out with each other for five months. That person will become way more fit. They will make better eating decisions. They will do more for their fitness. Uh, and they essentially can't fail because everybody around them is eating in a certain way and now they feel feel weird not eating in that way. Um, so the setting is more easy to influence the outcome and then the setting allows you to change your mindset along the way too. Now again, it's not one or the other, it's both. And so for a lot of people, a change of setting can reset a lot of limitations that they otherwise would have. It can also be a form of escapism, too. So it could not be very useful. Um, if you study like what a lot of these guys do that are really good at change work. Again, Tony is is in exceptional at this is they will take you and they will like he took Andre Agassi and he shaved his head, the tennis player. So, he used to have like long hair and then he shaved it. He used to wear a certain normal style of clothing and he had him wear a radical style of clothing. Uh he will change people's names. Um and so they will become a new name and they will no longer have the old name. Uh this is this is very powerful change in behavior. So if you can, you know, this is why people go to Iawaska journeys and have ceremonies and take psychedelics, uh, which I'm not exactly a huge advocate of personally, uh, but that is an approach where people can drastically change the setting and then as a result, um, come back with a completely new mindset. So if if that can serve you and you have a plan and intention and you have support around it, it can be an an amazing way in order to change. But we we find out very often is who you are travels with you wherever you go. So if you're if you are it's not where you're it's not where you're at physically so much as it's who you are spiritually and mentally and emotionally and generally it will follow you wherever you go. U but we want to use all the things that we possibly can that makes sense. So, if you find that some travel could be great, like I'm working on a new book and I haven't done it yet for over a year, like I clearly got a blockage there. Um, if if I get a cabin in the woods and lock myself in that room for two weeks, I will write that book. Um, so that's the next radical step that we're going to take. So, radical limitations sometimes require radical measures. >> Yeah. Well, I look forward to the book. Uh I read your one to many and I read that cover to cover at least three times. Uh there's so much in that book and I think what I tell people is is if all you understand about that book is how to make a better webinar, >> you missed the twothirds of the book at least. >> True. >> Yeah. All right. So, someone's asking about struggling with procrastination. We'll make this the last question. Y >> uh it says here, "I've been struggling with procrastination and often find myself putting off tasks despite knowing they were important. Could you discuss some effective NLP techniques that could help break the cycle? >> Oh yeah, so many of them. So we talked about validation before. If we can get into the idea that procrastination is useful, so let's figure out other things to attach it to. Uh that can be very helpful. But the reality, so and and Damon mentioned this earlier, one of the easiest ways to deal with procrastination is just to chunk down. Um so you don't have to do the whole task. You don't have to do half the task. You don't have to do a quarter of the task. You don't have to do 10% of the task. you just have to do the least thing possible that would make you feel like a idiot if you didn't do it. Uh and and that's like that is so fun to me. So when I I lost my exercise routine several years ago and I became like unfit and I wanted to build it up again. The problem with most exercise is you would go to a class. So like if I wanted to go to a yoga class, it's 60 minutes long. So you go from zero to 60 minutes. That is a lot. Like that is significant to go from a state of rest to a 60inute class next to people doing handstands and all kinds of crazy stuff, right? If they had one minute yoga, that would be a much better class for you to take. One pose yoga. We're only going to do one pose a day and that's it. Uh that would be very powerful. So when I started doing uh my exercise program again, here's what I would do. When I'd make my oatmeal in the morning, that was my Q. So you want to create a Q. The cue is when I do a task, I'm always going to do, I'm going to link the new habit that I want to create alongside of that task. And so the habit was do one push-up. So why while the water boiled and I had nothing else to do, I would get down and I would do one push-up. And I would not allow myself to do more than one push-up. Not yet. Like I would have to do one push-up a certain amount of na days before I would allow myself to do two push-ups. So now I'm creating a new association around exercise. I am now frustrated that I can't exercise more. Whereas in the past, I was frustrated with exercise. And now I'm creating a compulsion to want to exercise more because I'm super upset that I can't because I realize how ridiculous this is for me to get down and do one push-up. So then I started doing one push-up before every meal. So now I have the queue and I'm expanding on it. Now, here's the beautiful thing about quantity versus quality. Quantity creates an identity. If I do the act three times a day, then three times a day I have exercised. Yes, it was one push-up, but it was still an act of exercise. Now I'm identifying some my some myself as somebody who exercises on a regular basis. Great. Identity is the most powerful way to change somebody, change their identity. Um, and so I've changed my identity. And pretty soon with using leverage of being more frustrated with not working out than working out within a few weeks, I had a exercise program that I've stuck with now for the last seven years. Um, so this is the most effective way I can find with dealing with procrastination of tasks. chunk them down to the ridiculous and then create frustration that you can't do more with the task and then that will build a new relationship where you right now like if you do 60 minutes of yoga for example you will feel burned out when you're done you will hurt you will be in pain you will not feel good when you're when you're left over and now you will have a bad association attached with doing it again now we have a bad association attached to not doing it and so this is what I would recommend for you uh procedurally. Yeah. >> So, I want to leave people with this uh when you were talking about uh your identity because that's what I really specialize in. And I got to say as much of this work that I've done and I had an amazing mentor uh through that work, you were the first person I ever heard say that commitment is a transformation. And that I pondered on that for quite a while. And it's something I use in my coaching and my teaching. So, I'm going to I want everybody to think about that. We're not going to answer that, but think about that. The commitment is a transformation. And that, ponder that, meditate on that, and that will take you to some interesting places. And I want to say one more thing to everyone out there. If you appreciated having Jason on and you want him to come back, type a big fat yes in the comments section here. >> Nice. >> And we get the thank yous starting to roll in. Yeah. So, I so appreciate you being here. Uh, I could talk with you for hours and hours and, uh, always love it when we have you on and every time we have you on u, our live streams get so many views. So, >> it's always great and now we got a bunch of yeses coming in. Uh, so that's awesome. All right. Thank you so much, Jason, for joining us and, um, hope to do this again soon. >> Me, too. Thank you, Damon.