This book well it prepares you for nearly every known eventuality and provides you with a fair advantage in almost every conversation. Opening words open-minded. What do you know? How would you feel if 23 sequences of words all in a relatively short period of time? Almost every week we need to take down an illegal unofficial version of exactly what to say in audio book format. Rather than fight it, I thought what I'd do is I'd read the audio book for you today. But instead of giving you just the same version of the audio book that you can find anywhere else is we'll read the book. We'll read the book together. And given that this is nearly a decade old, I might add some bonuses, some further insights to help you understand the application of all of these word choices in your real world. We ready to read together? Opening words. I'm guessing that you picked up this book for one of a number of reasons. Perhaps you're an experienced sales professional looking to sharpen your skills. Maybe you run a business and you're looking to get your own way more often. Or perhaps you just liked our beautifully designed cover and felt obliged to take a look inside. One thing I'm certain of, though, is you've been getting this far in this book, this video. It tells me that you're open-minded about change and serious about your personal success. Throughout my studies of people, human relationships, and business interactions, I've been amazed by how some people achieve dramatically different results than others with what seem to be the exact same ingredients. In businesses in which people have identical products and resources, some people struggle to find customers, and yet others cannot stop finding more success. Despite their differences in attitude and endeavor, these successful people, I have learned, have one thing in common. They know exactly what to say, how to say it, and how to make it count. This realization has had me fascinated with the difference a subtle change of words can make to the outcome of a whole conversation, and it has fueled my study of the precise triggers that cause a shift in a person's belief system. Back in 2012, I published a tiny little book called Magic Words, and I featured it heavily in my trainings and my speeches. It's a book I'm I'm really proud of. And not just because this little book made many bestseller lists. More importantly, the people who bought it actually went on to read it, use it, and and what they learned would get them great results from employing simple changes in their word choices. Let me explain a little about what these magic words are. Magic words are set of words that talk to the subconscious brain. The subconscious brain is a powerful tool in decision making because it's pre-programmed through our conditioning to make decisions without overanalyzing them. It works a little like a computer. It only has a yes and a and a no out button can never land on maybe. It is strong and decisive and moves quickly. Using words that talk straight to the part of the brain that is free from may and responds on reflex gives you a fair advantage in conversation and can result in you getting your own way more often. If you're looking for examples where your subconscious has served you, here are some simple ones. Controlling your breathing while you sleep. assisting your routine on a familiar journey, allowing your attention to immediately be drawn to anything that resembles your own name. We all rely on our subconscious brain daily to get us through everything that happens without us having to process, compute, and take care of every decision all by ourselves. In this book, I revisit some of those magic words, add some new ones, and provide you with precise examples to show you how to apply them in your conversations. I do all I can to help you understand the principles behind those chosen words and allow you to find greater application for them in your life. These words are tried, tested, and proven to deliver results when applied properly. This book is about far more than magic words, however. As you work through each section, you will receive a powerful insight into what makes people tick and learn how simple changes you can apply instantly can make your life so much easier. Yes, this advice is aimed at increasing your business success. But every principle discussed is easily transferable into any industry and every area of life to help you become more persuasive and influential and have a bigger impact in all that you do. My advice is to have a notebook with you and maybe your own copy of the book and and a pen and and when you read and we work through this book together, look to create your own examples as you work through each of the sections. Then make the decision to try them for yourself as soon as possible. Getting more comfortable and confident each time you do. Everything I share may sound simple, but simple does not necessarily mean easy. Get comfortable being uncomfortable. I'm excited to hear about your results. So, please share your results on a chosen social platform. Leave it here in the comments and share your experiences of becoming a more skilled decision catalyst, ensuring more of your conversations really count. One, I'm not sure if it's for you, but one of the most common reasons I hear from people as to why they fail to introduce their idea, product, or service to others is the fact that they are fearful of the rejection they might receive. It was for this reason that I figured the best place to start is with a set of magic words you can use to introduce something to just about anybody at just about any point in time. And it's completely rejection free. The words in questions are, "I'm not sure if it's for you, but". Let's take a moment to understand how this simple structure works. Opening a statement with the words, "I'm not sure if it's for you," causes the listener's subconscious brain to hear. There's no pressure here. By suggesting that they might not be interested, you naturally increase their intrigue. They wonder what it is, and this spike in curiosity hooks them. What's more, it fires an internal driver that tells them a decision needs to be made. And the soft approach ensures this decision feels unpressured and internal. The real magic though is delivered through the final three-letter word of the sequence. A word that typically should be avoided in all conversations, the word but. Imagine receiving a comment from your employer that started with the words. You know that you're a really valuable member of the team. We love everything you do here, but some things need to change. What's the only part you would remember? I'm guessing the part that you would focus on most is everything that follows. But the word but kind of negates everything that was said prior. So when you say to somebody, I'm not sure if it's for you, but what the little voice inside your listener's head hears is is you might want to look at this. I'm not sure if it's for you, but would you happen to know somebody who is who is interested in learning more about communication skills? I'm not sure if it's for you, but we have plans on Saturday, and you're welcome to join us. I'm not sure if it's for you, but this option is available for this month only, and I'd hate for you to miss out. This rejection free approach creates a simple outcome. One of two things happens. your listener leans in and asks for more information because they're personally interested or in a very very worst case scenario, they say they'll give it some thought. So, there's the first set of magic words, the words, I'm not sure if it's for you, but I promise you some bonus material, some work that's not in the book. And probably the most important thing to remember with the words, I'm not sure if it's for you, but is that this is a rejectionfree opening formula. This allows you to start a conversation. and it puts a ball in play. It doesn't put a ball in the back of the net. It allows you to introduce an idea to somebody. That means that when you deliver the words, I'm not sure if it's for you, but you have to genuinely not be sure. You're looking to maintain a curious tone in your voice. What you're also looking to be able to do is to make sure that the thing that you put the other side of the butt is still laced in maybe. There's a big difference between saying, "I'm not sure if it's for you, but would you like to buy X?" versus I'm not sure if it's for you, but I but I have a little something that that that I think might help you in this situation. One is pushy and the other is pulley. And our ultimate goal of utilizing words like I'm not sure if it's for you, but is to have the other person say, "Tell me some more about that." And in most sets of circumstances, you've got it from there. Should we go to the second set of words? Two, open-minded. If you were to ask a room of a thousand people whether they considered themselves open-minded, I'm sure 900 of them would raise their hand. Just about everybody in the land thinks of themselves as meeting this criterion. And it's pretty easy to understand why. When the alternative is being considered close-minded, this perception of choice is almost guaranteed to steer people towards your idea. Knowing that people like to see themselves as open-minded, you can easily give yourself a fair advantage within your conversations. When introducing a brand new idea to a stranger, friend, prospect, or team member, using the words, "How open-minded are you?" and following up that sentence with a scenario you want them to opt into, allows you to naturally attract people towards the very thing that you are looking for their support with. This preface shifts you from having 50/50 odds of them agreeing with you to odds of more like 9010 in your favor. Everybody wants to be open-minded. Here are some examples. How open-minded would you be about trying this as an alternative? Would you be open-minded about giving this a chance? How open-minded are you about increasing your monthly income? Would you be open-minded about seeing if if if we could work together? Each of these options makes it very difficult for the other person to reject your idea. And it at least makes you feel obligated to explore the possibility. It seems like you're giving them a choice when really you are heavily weighting the only option you are giving them. Put simply, how open-minded are you to at least try it? So, here's some bonus thoughts is in the examples, some started with the words how open-minded and some started with the words would you be open-minded. What's the difference between a how open-minded question and a and a would you be open-minded question? See, one is is somewhat open, right? How open-minded is a is an open-ended question, whereas a would you be open-minded is a is a closed question. So, when would you use one over the other? If I make this simple for you, you you'd use a how open-minded preface when you're looking to open up a discussion. Whereas, you'd look to use a would you be open-minded question when when you're looking for a decision. So, are you trying to close a box? Are you trying to open a box? There's a big difference between me saying, "How open-minded are you to at least trying these words in your real world to to would you be open-minded to trying these words in your real world?" Catch the difference. Should we get to the next set of words? Three. What do you know? How often do you find yourself in a conversation that quickly becomes a debate because you are speaking with someone who thinks that they know best and perhaps even wishes to lecture you with their opinions? To influence others, you must be aware of how to control a conversation. One way of regaining control is to move the other person's position from one of certainty to one of doubts. Typically, people try to create this position of uncertainty through directly challenging the other person's opinion and perhaps even entering into an argument. I'm sure you've had moments when you've been frustrated by someone's inability to understand what you are saying and cannot overcome their preconceptions. This can happen regularly when you're trying to introduce new ideas or concepts. And the I know best mentality of many people can be difficult to overcome. The best way to overcome the I know best mentality of many people is to question the knowledge on which the other person's opinion was founded. I'm certain that you want to stop people from arguing with you. So this situation could regularly result in you backing down or walking away. For an opinion to have merit, however, it really should be founded on some form of knowledge. The best way to overcome this kind of conflict is not to win the argument. Instead, you must question the knowledge in which the other person's opinion was founded. The goal is to turn the situation into one in which the other person admits that their opinion was based on insufficient evidence whilst retaining the ability for them to save face in the conversation. It is the power of the preface, what do you know about that that softly threatens their knowledge base and forces them to share the reference on which their argument is based. Often this results in them realizing that their strong opinion was unfounded. Here are some examples in your real world. What do you know about us, our business, and and the way that we do things differently? What do you know about everything that's changed since 2020? What do you know about how things really work here? What do you know about the benefits of XYZ? These questions allow the other person to realize their opinion is perhaps not correct and they can quickly become far more receptive to change. The worst that can happen is that you learn the precise basis of their argument and can then position your point in contrast to it. Use words like this to challenge other people with confidence and avoid arguments that always end with losers. Since regardless of who the loser is, you're unlikely to leave with your desired results. Either everybody wins or everybody loses. So that third sequence of words is is one that through the years has often been misunderstood. I've had lots of people say to me, Phil, I read your book and I I love it, but but one sequence of words that I cannot see myself sharing are the words like, what do you know? And what's interesting when you write words in a book is it's difficult to write tone, inflection, intention. There's a big difference between saying, "What do you know?" And a and what do you know? See the difference, hear the difference, understand the difference. What we're looking to do is to softly question the knowledge base. So a tip for you in application of utilizing those words is sometimes you might want to swap from what do you know to what do you understand. Always you want to be curious in your tone, but you might want to add scale or scope to the to the very precise example of which you're challenging. Instead of me saying, "Well, what do you know about Hudson, New York?" I could say, "What do you know about everything there is to do here in the Hudson Valley?" You see, when I insert everything or all or any of those words that stretch the potential belief system of the other person, I get them to admit maybe not enough. I create opening for insights to then be added to the conversation. What do you know about mortgage rates? Feels like a challenge. What do you know about how mortgage rates are affected and and what the factors are that that that that change rates. You see how when we add more specificity, we add more deliberators, what we do is we create what's called a curiosity gap. And when you create a curiosity gap, you create intrigue. And that curiosity gap gives you control in the conversation. Should we get to the fourth sequence of magic words? Four. How would you feel if a word that gets thrown around like confetti in conferences is motivation. Yet still, when I ask my audiences to share with me what the word means, all I see in response are blank faces. It is the meaning of this word that creates the true base for understanding all areas of negotiation, influence, and persuasion. And you should explore it further if you'd like to perform at your peak. Put simply, understanding this word would mean that you could probably get just about anybody to do just about anything. The word motivation derives from two very common words forced together. The first part of the word, the motive part is derived from the Latin words matavus and a modern day translation is the word motive. Another word for motive is is reason. And the Asian part of the word that derives from the word that we know is action. And if somebody is going to take action, they're going to do something or move. That means a very simple definition of the word motivation is a reason to move or a reason to do. Now ask yourself this. Would it be fair to say that if the reason were big enough, you could get just about anybody to do just about anything? If you want people to do things that typically they do not want to do, first you need to find an honest reason that is big enough. Understanding what reasons are big enough means that you have to understand how people are motivated. And people are typically motivated by by one of two things. Either avoiding a loss or acquiring a potential gain. They either want to go towards the light, the good thing that they're looking for. they or they want to get away from the thing that could potentially hurt them. The real world tells us that people will work far harder to avoid a potential loss than they will to achieve a potential gain. Greater than that is the fact that the more contrast you can create between where somebody does not want to be and where somebody wants to be able to get to, the more likely you are to get people to move. Understanding the truth of motivation coupled with this next point will give you real context for this set of magic words. The second thing you must consider is whether people make or or base their decisions on on logic or or emotion. And the true answer to that question is in fact both. It is just that the decision is always made for emotive reasons first. Something has to feel right in here before it ever makes sense up here. I'm sure you've stepped away from a conversation confused about why the other person did not follow your advice and have wondered, "I don't know why they don't do it. It just makes so much sense for them to do it." If you're trying to win the argument based on your advice making sense, you're calling out to the wrong set of reasons. People make decisions based on what feels right first, and if you can make it feel right, the rest is easy. Understanding those two complex theories is the foundation of this set of magic words. And it is all brought together in a preface to a question. By introducing a future scenario with the words, "How would you feel if you allow the other person to time travel to the moment and imagine the emotions that would be triggered at that point?" Choosing moments that trigger both positive and negative emotions will allow you to create a truth worth changing for. It will also prepare others to accept your ideas on on how to help them achieve success or avoid a loss. What you then create is a conditional future facing scenario, something they can see for themselves. Examples might be something like this. How would you feel if this decision led to your promotion? How would you feel if your competition went past you? I mean, how would you feel if you turned this around? Or how would you feel if you lost everything? What about this one? How would you feel if this time next year you were debtree living in your dream home and and planning your next vacation? Creating these conditional future scenarios using the words how would you feel if gets people excited about the future and gives them a reason to move either towards the good news or away from the bad news. Remember, the greater the contrast, the more likely you are to get someone to move. What I love about this sequence of words and its ability to be able to help people feel things in a future conditional way is they're only really useful when what you have is high levels of emotional intelligence. When you have an awareness of what the other person may well be going through. These are a fundamentally human skill. This requires you to have the ability to know what makes other people tick. So you can only ask how would you feel if questions to people that you understand what they might want to run towards, what they might want to run away from, or even just what lights them up inside. So please don't ever think that the words alone are magic. What they are is tools. Tools to help you help people to make smarter decisions faster. Should we get to the next set of magic words? Five. Just imagine. Did you know that every decision any human makes is made at least twice? The decision is first made in your mind hypothetically before it's ever made in reality. In fact, for a decision to come true, you must have first at least imagined yourself doing it. Have you ever been in a situation in which you have said or even just mouthed these words back to someone else? I just couldn't see myself doing it. It's a literal thing. If you cannot see yourself doing something, the chances of you doing it are slim to none. People make decisions based on the images they see in their minds. So if you can place pictures in people's minds, then you can use the results of those images to influence their decisions. Creating pictures in the minds of others is done by telling stories. And we remember as a child many a good story that started with the words once upon a time. When we heard those words, we knew it was time to kick back, enjoy the moment, and embrace our imagination. while someone use words to paint a a world for us to jump into. It would be really tough to engage adults with the same powerful preface. So, you need some magic words that create the same picturesque outcome. When you hear the words just imagine, the subconscious brain kicks a switch and opens up the image viewer and I cannot help but picture the very scenario you are creating. In the previous section, you learned about away motivation and towards motivation. You can use those same exact rules to how you finish off your just imagine scenarios to help drive people to do the things you'd like them to do. Here are some examples. Just imagine how things will be in 6 months time once you've implemented this. Just imagine what your boss would say if you missed this opportunity. Just imagine the look on your kid's faces when they see you achieve this. Just imagine the impact this could have. Allowing the power attached to the other person's creative mind to build your case for you will always save you guessing and create a more vivid reality than anything you could possibly describe. Let them do the hard work. Imagine saying to a team member or prospect. Just imagine the smiles on your kids' faces when you tell them you've booked a trip to Disneyland. Or just imagine stepping up on stage and picking up that big incentive check. Or just imagine pulling into the driveway in your brand new car. As you make those statements, they will see the picture of that very thing happening. Now that they've seen the thing, chances of their belief in achieving it goes through the roof. I mean, just to imagine the difference that this is going to have to you and your business. A useful tip about the words just imagine and away motivation and towards motivation and their familiarity back to the words how would you feel if is the reality that that those two sequences of words can be utilized as a as a very powerful perfect pairing is you can say just imagine and take somebody towards the future. You could then say how would you feel if and take them towards something that's away or you could reverse that sandwich. But when you're looking for people to see things from alternative points of view and you say just imagine this or just imagine that, it could feel a little like you're leading the witness, same as if it was, "How would you feel if this and how would you feel if the other?" Again, it would feel a little forced. But when you pair those two sequences of words together, help show the other person that you know them by helping them understand why this is worth it in their mind's eye and and why they definitely don't want to achieve it in their heart's mind. Then what you're more likely to be able to do is to get them to understand that the change you're asking them to make is worth it. The change you're asking them to make has results. future conditional feelings plus imagined alternatives. Passport people through time in their mind and in their heart to help them realize the change you're inviting them to make is worth it in the long run. Ready for another set of words? Six. When would be a good time? This simple set of words helps us overcome one of the biggest challenges you face when trying to get people to take a serious look at your product, service, or idea. One of the biggest reasons your ideas fail to get heard is that others tell you that they just don't have the time to consider them. By using the preface, when would be a good time to you prompt the other person to subconsciously assume that there will be a good time and that no is not an option. This assumption acknowledges that there will be a time when this can definitely fit into their schedule and that it's just a case of confirming the specific time and date. It's this kind of direct question that prevents people from telling you that they do not have the time. and as a result helps you avoid one of the biggest objections people face. Examples for you to use include when would be a good time for you to take a proper look at this? When would be a good time to get started? When would be a good time to speak next? In all of these scenarios, please be certain that when you gain a reply, you work to schedule the precise next point of contact in order to keep control of the conversation in your hands. When you do get around to following up or speaking again at the agreed time, please do not ask them what they thought about what you asked them to look at. This makes it easy for them to talk bad news or bring up their concerns. Instead, swap the question with, "So, so what do you like about and watch them list the good news reasons instead? The preface when would be a good time to prompts the other person to assume that there will be a good time and that no is not an option." So, where are you going to use this? Now, appointment creation is a key part of many of our roles at this period of time. And you know, when would it be a good time to sit down and talk this through properly, fully, completely, entirely allows us to be able to to actually get something locked in. But I tell you, a more practical application of the words when would be a good time I is when you find yourself needing to have a a 30 minute conversation with somebody about something and only having 30 seconds in that given moment in time. We believe that the worst time to think about the thing you're going to say is in the moment you are saying it. So sometimes the words when would be a good time are a really good tool to help you create a more appropriate moment to have the type of conversation you're looking for. Even in your personal lives like when would be a good time for us to go visit your mother this month? When would be a good time for us to get a dinner on the schedule so we can go out on a date night? When would be a good time for us to talk to the kids about this? It locks in something with what's called an assumptive frame. And that assumptive frame puts you in control of being able to drive the next step. And the alternative would be, is there a good time? And that yes no gateway leaves the option of somebody else being able to say no. Catch the difference. Seven. I'm guessing you haven't got around to. Sticking to the theme of of following up with people. I thought I'd share some words that you can use in those scenarios in which you are fearful of contacting the other person because you think they've not done the thing you'd like them to do. You know the times when you have sent over some details or they have said they need to consult with someone else and now you need to make contact to take the next step. When you are fearful that someone has not done something, instead of asking them how that thing went, you may want to start the conversation slightly differently. Open the conversation by allowing the other person to say face, but also by preventing them from using any of the excuses you think they might use. This leaves them with nowhere to go in the conversation other than where you would like them to go. The reason they cannot use the excuses is because you've been bold enough to start the conversation in a way that suggests they were about to use the very excuse that they had prepared by prefacing your question with, "I'm guessing you haven't got around to." Imagine you're making a telephone call to someone who said they needed to consult with their partner before making a decision. If you ask, "I'm guessing you haven't got around to speaking to your partner yet." It now becomes impossible for them to use that excuse. They respond in one of two ways. Either they feel proud that they they have done what they have promised or they're embarrassed that they haven't and they make a promise to put that right. If you ask, "I'm guess If you ask, I'm guessing you haven't got around to speaking to your partner yet," it now becomes impossible for them to use that excuse, they respond in one of two ways. Either they feel proud that they have done what they had promised, or they're embarrassed that they haven't and make a new promise to put right that fact. Other examples could be, "I'm guessing you haven't got around to looking over the documents fully yet, or I'm guessing you haven't got around to setting a date yet." I'm guessing you haven't got around to making a decision yet. By pushing for the negative scenario, you get people to rise to the positive or you or or or to tell you how they're going to fix the thing they said that they were going to do. By using the words you are fearful they may give you back in the other direction, you create a scenario that completely disarms them. If you say to somebody, "I'm guessing you haven't got around to making a decision on this yet," and they say, "No, you're right. We're still thinking about it." You can open up the negotiation. If instead they say, "No, we have. We we've made a decision." You can say, "Great. When are we ready to get started by pushing for the negative scenario, you get them to rise to the positive or to tell you how they're going to fix the thing they said they were going to do?" Cuz most people are people of their word and feel pretty bad if they called out for it. The words I'm guessing you you haven't got around to again are are something that through the years of sharing this work there's been a little push back and a little friction, a little resistance because if said with a sassy tone, they could actually get somebody else's backup. They could create resistance or friction. The words are meant to be able to disarm. They're meant to allow the other person to say face. They're they're meant to make it okay that they haven't done the thing that you hoping for them to be able to do. Like, I'm guessing you haven't got around to writing down everything in today's discussion that you were hoping to be able to put into practice. I'm guessing you haven't got around to to to putting all the words to work yet inside your day-to-day interactions. I'm guessing you haven't got around to looking at which conversations in your life are the ones that are worthy of the most attention. You see, these very real examples, they don't do anything other than share a version of the truth. And if you have done more than what I've just suggested, you feel a touch more posture. You feel a touch more profound. Whereas, if you haven't got around to doing it yet, a and particularly catch that inclusion of the word yet, you might feel a touch more motivated to say, "Now's the moment. Now's the point in time for me to step up." Should we do some more words? Eight. Simple swaps. Using a simple technique, I'm going to provide two pieces of magic in one short section. The psychology behind this technique, which involves turning an open questioning into a closed one, results in you receiving a guaranteed outcome or answer. It came to me first of all from trying to prevent a giant mistake I I see so many people make when they reach the end of a sales presentation. Following many a presentation, the question people reach for is, "Do you have any questions?" Asking this creates the subconscious suggestion that the other person should have questions. And if they don't, it makes them feel peculiar or perhaps even a a little stupid. This encourages them to leave the decision-making conversation and go away and think about it. A simple change of wording moves this from out of your control to completely in your control. Swap the phrase, "Do you have any questions?" with the improved, "What questions do you have for me?" The minute you assume an outcome, the easiest response for them to give is that they have no questions. What does this really mean? It means that they've made a decision and you are perfectly positioned to ask for it. This change of wording typically results in you gaining that response or learning the specific questions that they need the answers to. Either way, you're far closer to a decision and you avoid the dreaded I need some time to think about it. That was the first simple lesson, but I promise two for one in this section. This next change is so simple and so profound. And it works whether spoken, written, by text message, maybe even in Insta DMs. It works everywhere. It's best used when you're looking to garner an additional piece of information from the other person and you want it effortlessly. Consider a scenario in which you've met somebody and would like to have a conversation with them at a later time. A mistake many people make is asking, "Can I have your phone number?" When you ask somebody, "Can I have your," it creates a permissionbased resistance in the other person, which makes it harder to get what you hope for? Since a yes or a no response is required, it can be seen as an invasion of privacy. Instead, asking the alternative question, "What's the best number to contact you at?" results in people effortlessly giving you the information you requested. Both these sets of magic words demonstrate how changing a couple of words can make all the difference in the results you get from your conversations. This idea of simple swaps has actually become quite a quite a profound ideology inside all of our work at exactly what to say. It's it's had us thinking about every word that leaves your mouth, leaves your pen, leaves your keyboard, leaves your thumbstroke and and realizing every word is helping or hurting. And and it means that we start to obsess about every call to action. It means we start to think about is something adding to your point of view or is it subtracting it? And I realized how long I've been I've been talking about this too and thought like if we're given some bonuses is I'll reach back into all the archives and I wrote this book here toolbox way back in like 2010. And what did I do here is I um I shared some thoughts on winning language. You've probably seen some of this right now on on Instagram and people are getting super excited like it's a new idea of don't say this, say this instead and and having reveals, but but but here was us talking about it way back in the dark ages like in in stone. And here are some don't says and do say this instead. Some simple swaps that can make a big difference. See, don't say if, say when. If is conditional and maybe it might not happen. When is an absolute. when creates a picture in the mind of other people's. Don't say but and look to negate what the other person said. Swap the word but for the word and and now everything is true. Don't talk about how much something costs. Instead, share what they would invest in your product or service. Please don't ask somebody to sign a contract. See, I hate signing contracts, but I love autographing books. It's the exact same action. Tiny simple swaps. Please don't talk to people about their problems. A problem will create resistance and frictions. Problems are headto-head. But if I swap the word problem to the word challenge, challenges are things that we can overcome together. Swap the word expensive for the word premium. None of us like to buy expensive things. We all like to pick the premium option. Try to avoid using the word cheap. We're not looking for cheap. We're looking for the the essential solution or the value solution. And fundamentally, what we're looking to be able to say is not when I sell something to you. We're looking to position it as as when you own it. There are a few more simple swaps that show up that that maybe are easy to forget and easy to to overutilize in the wrong direction. Like, be careful of overusing the word we. When you reach for the words we, you quite literally might we all over the other person. They're probably not going to like it. But if you swap the word we for the word you and talk in terms of other people's interests, there's a big difference between what we are learning today and what you are learning today. Understand the difference? And my invitation on this idea of simple swaps that I've been preaching about for decades is to find the words in your life that are hurting. Swap them with something that could be helping and watch the difference that it makes. Should we do some more magic words? Nine. You have three options. People hate to feel manipulated and nearly always want to feel like they made the final decision. When someone needs help deciding, using these words can help narrow their gaze, reduce their choices, and make it easier for them to pick. The words, "As I see it," you have three options. Help the other person through the decision-m process, and allow you to appear impartial in doing so. You're simply presenting them with their options. Yet you now have the opportunity to display them in a way that favors your preferred choice. The rhythm of three makes it for easy listening for the other person. And by leaving your preferred choice till the end, you easily build the value of that option and load the choices so your preferred outcome stands out as the clear favorite. For sure, we could play with several examples. In fact, we could probably think of dozens that relate to your life. But here's one that could help your thinking. Imagine you're looking for someone to join your business or organization and they're on the fence about it. Start by making a statement that sets the scene for the real life scenario. And that statement might run something like this. So, you're currently in a job that you kind of hate. You're not enjoying it so much. The hours are long. It's keeping you away from your family. And the money is nowhere near what you would like it to be. We've shown you a business opportunity and you like it. yet you're not entirely sure what to do. As I see it, you have three options. First, you could look for another job. Work on your resume, send out applications, go through interviews, and work through that entire process to perhaps find another employer offering a similar package and more likely expecting the same kind of work in return in the same kind of work for the same return. Secondly, you could do absolutely nothing. Stay exactly where you are right now. accept that your current circumstances are as good as it gets and just suck it up. Or third, you could give this a try. Work it alongside what you're doing right now and see how far you go. Of those three options, what's going to be easier for you? Finishing with another set of magic words means that they have to pick one of those options. What's going to be easier for you means that the the laborious new job option is off the table. Since staying put was already off the table, the only option they have left is the easy one. The one that you want them to pick, the one that you left at the end and stacked in your favor because you made that path of least resistance. So start with you have three options and finish with what's going to be easy for you and watch people effortlessly pick the choice that previously they were finding so difficult to make. Why is it that when you give people three options, that's the easiest number of options to be able to work through? Well, um, one option feels somewhat forced. Two options feels like a right option and a wrong option. If you go to a restaurant, maybe like the Cheesecake Factory that has a gazillion options, you're overwhelmed with choice. So if if if one option is too prescriptive and two options feels right and wrong and too many options feels overwhelming, the next natural step to think about that makes decision-m easier is when you get to pick between three. When you're picking between three options, often one of them is a decoy decision. In the same way that when you are pricing things, look at pricing strategies used by many a great coffee shop. If a small coffee was $1 and a medium coffee was $2 and a large coffee was $3 and you ask somebody out of those three options which one would they want, they would probably borrow an existing decision-making habit and and make the decision based on how thirsty they were or how they like to be able to consume coffee. But that's dependent upon those options being displayed equally. What if the small coffee was $1 and the medium coffee was $2.75 and the large coffee was $3? Which one might you pick? Now, see, by by removing the middle option off the table, by making that a very difficult to pick option, it shines the light on one of the other two choices. Now, if you definitely wanted more than the tiny cup of coffee, you've really now only got one option left. And the way that these three options have been positioned would mean that you'd steer more people to the bigger of the three options. So when you are presenting people with choice, you're presenting them with options. Three options is often the best number. Make the first option something that's viable but maybe not the smartest choice. Make the se second option something they almost certainly want to swipe away. And make the third option the one that's likely to deliver the promise that is important for them in the most simple, easy way. and then finish with a challenge question like what's going to be easier, what's going to be healthier for you, what's going to give you more energy. And by presenting a challenge question after three options, you turned a complex decision-m process into something that's easier. Now, let's look at another set of magic words. The 10th set of words in the book are the words two types of people. As entrepreneurs, sales professionals and business owners, we are often tasked with the responsibility of helping people to make their minds up. To me, the primary job description of all sales professionals is to be decision catalysts in the lives of their customers and prospects. Yet still, the job can be more simply described as a professional mind make maker upper. There are many people who do a great job of getting people interested in something. Yet it is the final moment of helping people to decide that creates the action that drives results. That's the tough part. Help people to choose by removing some of the choices and creating easy options. Decisions become easier when the choices are polarizing. Red or white wine, beach or ski vacation, romcom or action movie, they all become simpler decisions than the broader alternatives. Your goal is to create a statement that presents choice and then allow the other person to pick. Asking people to decide for themselves who they are with the magic words two types of people prompts a near instant decision. The second someone hears there are two types of people in this world, the little voice in their head immediately wonders which one are they? And they wait with bait your breath to hear the choices. Examples. Now your role is to deliver them two choices and make one of them stand out as the easy option. There are two types of people in this world. Those who leave their personal financial success in the hands of their employers and those who take full responsibility and build their own futures. There are two types of people in this world. Those who judge something before they've even tried it and those who are prepared to try something and base their opinion on their own experience. There are two types of people in this world. those who resist change in favor of nostalgia and those who move with the times and create a better future. You should be able to see the pattern in these examples and understand how the options are clearly stacked in favor of the decision you would like them to pick. Something for you to think about right now listening is that there are two types of people in this world. Those who read or listen to books and do nothing and those who put into practice and what they've learned and then enjoy the results. Let's look at magic words number 11. I bet you're a bit like me. This set of words is quite possibly one of my favorites because it can help just about anybody agree to just about anything. It's even more powerful in a conversation with a stranger than it is with somebody you already know. When you're talking to a stranger, the conversation needs to move easily, which means it typically follows the path of least resistance. If you use this preface ahead of a scenario you would like people to believe to be true, expect them to agree with you wholeheartedly, quickly, and easily. Prefacing a statement with the magic words, "I bet you're a bit like me," quite often results in the other person comfortably agreeing. They're agreeing with what you're saying, providing that you are reasonable. This serves as a wonderful tool to help gather evidence to use in building your later recommendations. My experience has taught me that many customers, prospects, and people in general are not always completely honest. Getting them to provide evidence that supports your objective makes it harder for them to disagree with you. You can use this set of words to help avoid many common objections by gaining full agreement with something they may have otherwise have tried to use as a future excuse. Examples. Imagine you are fearful of someone objecting to your idea because they don't have time to commit to it. Early in the conversation, you could say something like, "I bet you're a bit like me. You enjoy working hard now knowing that it will pay dividends in the future." Or, "I bet you're a bit like me. You hate watching trashy TV in the evening and would rather work on something beneficial." Or, "I bet you're a bit like me. You're a busy person who's always juggling to get everything done." Slip those kind of statements into early conversations whilst holding eye contact with the other person and just watch them nod back at you. When they do, this means that they know that you know they agree with those concepts. This makes it an awful lot harder for them to tell you they've not got the time to do what you demonstrated and what that could give them and the things that they say they want. The magic words, I bet you're a bit like me, often result in the other person comfortably agreeing with you. One of the funniest pieces of push back is is people, particularly in North America, it's like, I can't use the word bit. How on earth could I say the word bit in my southern accent or I'm from Louisiana and understand the principle of the words? I bet you're a bit like me. We're not necessarily saying that is the exact sequence of words to say. What we're saying is build collective agreement. Build the science into a conversation that we're aligned, that we're on the same page, that what we are is we're in agreement with some facts that now given those facts are true, they support any direction of travel. It could be something as simple as not, I bet you're a bit like me, but it could be even I can imagine you're feeling remarkably similar to I am right now and and are looking forward to getting home and and chilling out on the couch. Yeah. Yeah, I am. You see how that collective agreement provides an anchor point for future recommendations? Or I bet your household's much like mine. Rarely do you find time to sit down at the dinner table as a family and too often or not, it's it's it's a tray on your lap in front of the television. Or I bet your kids are are much like mine and that that what they do is is they spend too much of their time on this and not a much of their time on that. You see how much ground we can cover quickly by giving other people a fine reputation to live up to or giving other people any reputation to live up to. Once they've lived up to that reputation, that now becomes an anchor point that can be used to make future recommendations. So where else do we go in the book? Let's go to the 12th set of words. If then our speech patterns, listening patterns, and in turn belief systems are all pre-programmed and hardwired into us throughout our childhood. So much so that the repetitive patterns and words we receive through to our adolescence create habits, systems inside of our belief systems that we lean on in order to support our personal decision-making process. An example of this is a simple pattern of speech that appeared a lot in your youth and its impact is often overlooked. Adults made many conditional statements to us when we were children, such as, "If you don't eat all your dinner, then you're not going to get any dessert. If you don't study hard at school, then you're not going to get into college or get the job that you hoped for. If you don't tidy your room, then you're going to be grounded for the weekend. When they made conditional statements like these to you, chances are that you believed them. These statements hold power over our beliefs and actions. And as a consequence, creating a scenario using the preface if and adding the second scenario with the preface then means that people are highly likely to believe the outcome. If you decide to give this a try, then then I promise you won't be disappointed. If you put this into your stores, then I'm certain your customers will like it. If you give me a chance in the role, then I'm confident you'll thank me later. By creating these if then sandwiches, you can position guaranteed outcomes that are very difficult not to believe. If you're prepared to give this a try, then I'm certain you'll see results as early as the first day you try it. How many if then statements do you make naturally right now? How many if then statements are you still on the receiving end? What we're borrowing is an existing neuropathway that has been carved into your brain like it's been carved into hundreds of other people's brains. And and the goal of which is to make it easy for people to understand the statement you're about to be able to make. There are so many applications like even down to like if you've taken value from this video in any way so far then then please do me the favor and leave a comment. If you found this useful and think somebody else could could feel the same, then then take a minute to share. There's something you should be doing that's not watching this right now. Then please get to work and go do the thing that you should be doing instead. What I'm showing you is that if you're committed to put these words into practice, then they're going to show up in hundreds of areas of your daily routine without feeling forced, without feeling like you're doing something to somebody, without feeling like what you're doing is you're manipulating. All you're simply doing is helping borrow existing neuropathways to steer people to make better decisions faster by adding brevity and conciseness to the decision-m process. Set of words number 13. You ready? Don't worry. What I love best about this next set of simple words is the power they have on people who are nervous, apprehensive, or showing signs of concern. You know, when you can see and feel the anxiety in somebody, when they're uncertain about what to do next, or perhaps even fearful, these two magic words provide instant relief, and you can typically see the change in the recipient. Say the words, "Don't worry," and the tension just pours out of them, and they become more relaxed. just two words that when said confidently and calmly create an outcome that is the equivalent of the expression that little sigh that comes out is the start to feeling control. This is particularly useful in high stress scenarios when confronted with someone who's panicked or just to comfortably put somebody at ease. The minute somebody is indecisive, hold your posture, stay relaxed, and give them the feeling that you have this under control and can help them navigate the next step. Examples include, "Don't worry, you're bound to be nervous right now. Don't worry, I know you don't know what to do right now, but that's what I'm here for. I'm here to help you through this process and overcome all the hurdles as they as they come up along the way. Don't worry, I I felt just the way you feel right now before I started. and and look at me now. So, don't worry if you're wondering how you're going to make these new word choices stick. They'll come in time. You'll have soon mastered it after getting a little better from one conversation to next. Don't worry is particularly useful in high stress scenarios when confronted with someone who is panicked. It puts people at ease. So looking at that don't worry example there's a possibility though it could not work and it could not work in many a set of moments when it actually has the alternative effect. The words don't worry can actually amplify anxiety. The words don't worry can actually create chaos and confusion. The words don't worry can create the very thing that you are saying for them to not worry about if what you're saying is fundamentally untrue. If you were to say to somebody, "Don't worry, there's plenty of fish in the sea. You'll get the next one." You don't know that to be true. Therefore, your flippency is potentially creating an unnecessary anxiety in the other person. My alternative is you could say, "Well, don't worry, is there are new opportunities showing up all the time, and there's a possibility that a future opportunity is even better than what you've just missed out on." You see the truth in that second example reduces anxiety. Whereas the flippency in the first example results in the creation of worry. So every one of this sequence of words in this book is not magic by itself. It's a tool to do a job. It is a technique to help create an outcome. But the right tool used in the wrong way for the wrong moment could actually have catastrophic effects. So be careful of understanding the method behind the madness. the why behind the what. And don't worry, we do the best we can to explain. But I think your job is to is to practice carefully, one conversation at a time. And if you're wondering how to practice these words, start in low stakes environments. Could you think of the number of occasions today that you could invite other people to worry less and mean it and stay on track and be truthful? at the grocery store or when speaking with your family or in a conversation with a colleague or a co-orker at a meeting later on today or in a piece of sales copy or in a social media post because I've learned that the more you get repetition of something, the more at bats, the more application that you have of utilizing new skills, the more these skills start to show up in your everyday activities and they move from being my words and they start to become your everyday language. Don't worry. Like, I know what I'm doing. And and don't worry, I know that you can do this. And don't worry, it is going to be uncomfortable the first few times that you start utilizing these new tools. Don't worry, I'm not going to keep laboring this point. Let's start moving on and sharing some more magic words. 14. Most people. These two words, which contain just 10 letters, are possibly responsible for more of my negotiating success than any other single strategy I've employed in my businesses. Indecision is the biggest thing that stands in the way of progress. And these words can help jump people out of procrastination in a flash. There are a few things that are worth understanding about people. And these are two big ones. First, people take great confidence from the fact that people like them have made a decision before them and that decision worked out just fine. Consider this scenario. Maybe you have experienced this one yourself. On a vacation, you see a group of children on top of a rock face and looking to jump into the water below, but nobody wants to go first. However, as soon as one person is brave enough to go first and jumps into the water, lands with a splash, doesn't suffer any injury, but instead breaks the surface with a great big smile on on their face. Now, everybody seems to think it's a good idea. Human beings, people, you and I, we are all like to follow others and trust that there's safety in numbers. Second, sometimes people need to be told what to do, but without their permission, it can sound rude. I'm sure there have been plenty of times that you've wanted to say, "What I think you should do is." These two factors create the power and the application of the magic words, most people. Now, when you're faced with a moment when you want to say, "Look, what I think you should do is," but you cannot say that because it's it's kind of obnoxious. Instead, you can simply state what most people would do in this situation. And watch how it changes everything. When you tell people what most people would do, the subconscious brain says, "Aha, I'm most people." So, if that's what most people would do, then perhaps that's what I should do, too. The examples for this are endless. What most people do is they complete the forms with me here today. You then receive your welcome pack and we can get you booked in for a launch. What most people do is is place a small order to get started, commit to a few of the best products, see how they work out in their daily routines, and then decide what they want to do next. Most people in your circumstances would grab this opportunity with both hands, knowing that there's almost no risk. Try to argue with each of these points and see how much they can be used to strengthen your point of view. In fact, most people put the words most people into some of their daily conversations. And most of these people see an immediately positive effect on their influence. What have I learned through teaching people the power of most people over the last 10 years plus is that in almost every audience there are some people that do not see themselves as most people. So as much as this feels like an inclusivity statement where I can say most people would do blank in this scenario when I say most people to some people some people go aha I'm not most people therefore I want to do the alternative. So the words most people can become even more powerful even more useful even more applicable when um you have the emotional intelligence against to understand who you're talking to. See, if I understand somebody sees themselves as unique, not looking to follow a crowd, somebody who is perhaps more rebellious, more marketplace of one, I wouldn't try to be inclusive with them by utilizing the words most people. I'd use the words most people in a different way. What I'd say is don't be like most people. Don't be like most people and wait for the perfect moment. Don't be like most people and think that there's a perfect house. Don't be like most people and and believe that there is there is a utopian outcome. Don't be like most people. And you see how those words used in that scenario create a sense of inclusivity when you know what you're talking to. What we're talking about here is a technique called labeling. See, if there were a thousand people in the room and I said most people, how many people would I be talking about? Whereas if I said some people, how many would I be talking about now? Many? A handful? A few, a good number, almost everybody, everybody, nobody, next to nobody, a good number. You see, all of these sequences of words helped you sort amongst a quantity of people. Yet, I gave no numbers, yet you created numbers. Those labels allow us to organize chaos. And most people is an example of one of those labels. What can you do to steer beliefs and steer language and steer understanding inside other people by using words like most, many, some, a few, a handful, a good number, and help people realize what percentage of folks you're talking about? One more idea on this labeling technique is to be careful about speaking in absolutes. Cuz most people is most people. It isn't everybody. See, if I said everybody thinks this, you'd go, "H, not true." If I said nobody would do that, your brain goes again looking for the exceptions. Perhaps you've even had a situation where somebody said to you, "Why do you always do this?" And your inside voice is like, "I don't always. There was this one time." See, absolutes become dangerous. What is your favorite? What is your top? What is your number one? Those absolute edges mean you have to get them right. Whereas if you squeeze those edges in and instead of saying what is your top, what is your favorite? What is somewhere you really enjoy is an easier question to answer than what is your favorite. I know there's some complexity in this and it's way beyond the label of most people, but I hope these extra insights are valuable to you, particularly if you've read the book before, particularly if you've listened to the audio book before, particularly if you wanted to get more and go beyond the book. That's why I'm reading to you today. If most people was a label, then so is the 15th sequence of words in the book, another label. The label right here is the label, the good news. Now is the time for us to talk about how you can turn around all that negative energy, the negative energy that comes from others in your team, others who are prospecting, or perhaps just other people in your life. These words provide you with a tool to spin a negative into a positive using a technique called labeling. The moment you apply a label to something, it becomes almost impossible for the other person in the conversation to shed that label. It is the acceptance of this new label that creates the ability to change the direction of a conversation with minimal effort and move it toward a more positive outcome. Using the magic words, the good news is as a preface to your chosen point ensures that the recipient has to accept the label that you've attached to it. This optimistic spin can help you face negativity in your life, prevent you from ending up in a self-sabotaging conversation of blame and pity and help you to start building in a new direction. If somebody is questioning their ability to do something, then you can respond with, "Look, the good news is that we have dozens of people who were in the exact same situation. Uh particularly when they first started and they've gone on to be successful and are here to support you, too. If they're unsure whether they have the skills that are required in order to make the business work, you could say, "The good news is that we have comprehensive training in you can complete it at your own pace to give you all the skills you need to make success of this business." What about when somebody is resisting change but says they want more success? You could respond with, "The good news is you already know what it is that you're doing right now is not working. So, what's the harm in trying this?" By prefacing things with the good newses, you cause people to face forward with optimism and zap any negative energy out of the conversation. You can use this same principle with two more words when faced with people who give excuses or reasons as to why they're not ready to move forward. When somebody gives you an excuse, they expect you to push back and argue around the point. Next time somebody tells you a reason why they do not want to do something, respond by saying, "That's great." When somebody says, "I I couldn't do it because of this." Say, "That's great. You've just found out another way that doesn't work." And watch how they look at you different. You have changed the way that they think. Now, some of them might think that you've completely lost the plot, but hey, you probably didn't want those people in your life anyway. By bringing more positivity to situations with the good news is and responding with that's great, you soon start shifting the balance in people's thoughts and allow them to question themselves towards a better outcome and behavior. I hope you're realizing how great this could be because the good news is is that you've inevitably been using this sequence of words historically in your life already. You've labeled something to a friend or family member. The good news is is you've had somebody share an update with you and say the good news is and you've accepted this label in many areas of your life but you maybe haven't yet fully accepted its full capabilities of supporting a better future for you. See what do I mean by this is if you decide that everything happens to you is all your fault and if you decide everything that happens to you is within your control and anytime anything that happens good, bad or indifferent, you think that's great. How hard is it to rock your confidence? How hard is it for you to feel frustrated or challenged? How hard is it for you to have your joy, your momentum, your direction of travel stolen by somebody else's point of view? If everything that happens to you is great and you can build on it, there's a strong possibility you will do exactly that. You will build on it. The prophecy becomes true. And that same thing is true when you label something the good news in somebody else's world or potentially in your own world. So a challenge to set for you right now is is is if there's something that's happened in your world that perhaps has currently been labeled anything other than good news. Maybe you're calling it bad news. Maybe you are frustrated, disappointed, saddened by a situation that's happened in your life. Ask yourself this question and see if you can retrain your brain. Say, "What is the good news in what's happened?" And then write down the answer. And then ask yourself this question. And what else? And what else? And what else? And what else? And see if what you can do is find the good news in your own bad news. And watch how powerful that label of words becomes when you find that something you were once upon a time labeling as bad news could quite possibly be one of the most profound life-changing experiences for the better inside of your life. Let's do some more words. And you're probably wondering what happens next. That's the 16th sequence of words. It's the words what happens next. Let's apply some context that happens in many business related discussions. You've created an opportunity, got a red-hot prospect, been out, shown them how you can help them, and walked them through your entire presentation, and now you're at the point where they've nodded, smiled all the way through everything that you've presented to them. You want them to commit, but following all this relationship building and imparting of knowledge, the conversation grinds to a stop with nobody leading the actual decision. This happens far too often and it's a product of people being so fearful of being seen as pushy or controlling that they fail to finish the job they started. It can be all too easy to leave the decision-m process up to other people and hope that they will make the right choice. But without your help, often others make no decision at all and everyone loses out. In these consultative discussions, it is your responsibility to lead the conversation and following the sharing of the required information. Your role is to move it toward a close. You need to let them know what happens next. So the magic words you require are precisely that. What happens next is this is the perfect way of linking all of the information they need to make a decision, the information you provided when you present it to them, and bringing them through to the completion that needs to follow. So, what you do is you create a scene. You do not ask them what they would like to do. You just tell them what happens next. What happens next is that we're going to take a few moments, complete some of your personal details, and get things set up for you to receive everything in the quickest possible time. Then, we need to schedule another meeting for us to get started. And at that point, I'm going to help you through all the steps to ensure that you realize your goals and are fully aware of all the support that is available to you. In terms of registering your details, what is the best address for you? The easier the question is to answer, the easier you gain the decision. So, finishing this process with a question that is effortless to answer is the key to gaining a rapid response and a positive outcome. In the example just discussed, you should see just by asking them that simple question at the end, the second they respond with their address, it means they are moving forward with your proposal. You could comfortably ask any type of questions to close your scenario. The easier the question is to answer, the easier you gain your decision. Having a concise and constructive what happens next conversation will mean that you successfully close far more conversations in the first meeting and make more happen in the moments that you have with people. So, what's going to happen next? It's probably the one of the most useful sequences of words that could show up in any relationship that you'd like to maintain for a long period of time. See, if what you're doing is you're providing a what happens next close to every conversation, you no longer need to have a follow-up. All you have to do is to say what's going to happen next and then do it. Say what's going to happen next and then do it. Say what's going to happen next and then do it. You should be able to apply this to your customer scenarios and also apply it to the personal relationships that matter too. It would be quite easy to walk out of a dinner, a coffee, a cocktail and say, "So, what's going to happens next is?" And now you're ready to future pace of what your next interaction with that individual is going to be. You could walk out of a business meeting and before you leave, you could say, "So, what's going to happen next is?" And you could agree their actions and your actions and then simply follow through on the promises. So, what's going to happen next is on our side is I'm going to share with you a handful more of our magic words. 17. What makes you say that? Objections are a common part of everyday life. We face indecision from others in our personal life and professional lives and quite often find ourselves having to accept another person's idea. These conversations can become confrontational. So, to avoid argument, these conversations can become confrontational. So to avoid argument, the majority of people are happy to let go of their goal in favor of an easy life. To overcome an objection, you must first understand what an objection really is. There is always the possibility that an objection is an alternative to saying no thank you or a way of pushing the decision away for another day. However, it is always a shift in control of the conversation. And the second any objection is raised, the other person seizes power and you are obliged to respond to their wishes. Success in negotiating is all about maintaining control in the conversation. And the person in control is always the person who is asking the questions. By treating every objection you face as nothing more than a question, you can quickly regain control of the conversation by asking a question in return. In a business setting, common objections include, "I haven't got the time. It's the wrong time. I want to shop around. I haven't got the money right now. I need to speak to somebody else before I make a decision about this. The worst thing you could do when such an objection is raised is to respond with your counterargument and make statements that disprove their current opinions. Instead, you can tackle each of these common objections effectively by being inquisitive about them and asking a question in the opposite direction. Success in negotiating is all about maintaining control in a conversation and the person in control is always the person who is asking the questions. Of course, you could develop unique and precise questions to challenge every objection you are faced with. Alternatively, you could lean on one set of magic words that has served millions of similar scenarios. The words, "What makes you say that?" Here are a few examples. Customer says, "I need to speak to somebody else before I make a decision about this." You say, "What makes you say that?" Customer says, "Really, I don't have all the money right now." You say, "What makes you say that?" Customer says, "I'm I'm really not sure I've got the time to fit this around what I'm doing right now." You say, "What makes you say that?" This shift of control now leaves the other person obligated to give an answer and fill the gaps in their previous statement. It prevents you from making prejudgments or entering into an argument. It allows you to better understand their point of view before recommending your next thought or action. What you are asking them to do is to explain themselves properly. The words what makes you say that means they now have to take responsibility and explain what they really mean. Having this explained properly puts you in a position in which you can then help them with a decision or at least have a greater understanding of why they cannot make it at this time. The words, "What makes you say that?" are simply an example of a clarifying question. They're a question that allows somebody to add context to their point of view. When we go deeper on our work at exactly what to say in certification programs, when we work through full curriculum, when we help people understand the method, we introduce this idea that curiosity is the fuel to great conversation. And it's more than an idea. It's a principle. It's one of our four cornerstones. It helps people realize that if you can show up with more curiosity in your conversations, you can garner more context. And the words, "What makes you say that?" are only useful when delivered from a place of genuine curiosity. When I wrote these words in the book, I I wrote them in a curious tone. When people read them, they read them in whatever tone they choose. So note, I'm saying curiosity is the fuel to great conversation. The words, what makes you say that need to be asked with a curious tone, not a sassy tone, not a confident tone, not a arrogant tone. is when somebody says, "I can't afford that." You can't say like like like what makes you say that in an argumentative fashion because now you're going to expect friction. But you can retreat a little and and say, "Well, um what what what is it that makes you say that?" And now we get a greater level of explanation. But here's the bonus is creating a curious tone sometimes is harder than it sounds. And what it might mean is that you might need a sequence of words ahead of it to guarantee curiosity. And here's a sneaky favorite set of magic words of mine. It's a question. It's a one-word question. In fact, it's probably my favorite one-word question of all time. And it is the question really. See, if I question somebody's objection with the words really, it creates again a giant curiosity gap. And combining the question really with the magic words, what makes you say that allows you to ask a clarifying question anytime somebody says something that you don't totally agree with, you don't totally like it isn't the direction of travel you're hoping to go. So try it. Next time somebody gives you some friction, say really like like what what what makes you say that? And be brave enough to be nervous. Be brave enough to stammer in your words. Be brave enough to be less than perfect with your addiction and learn that high levels of competence doesn't necessarily meet the level of confidence that we've been trained to believe is true. I want you confident enough to care to have real conversations with real people to find out real answers so that you can make real decisions that create real results. We're not looking to railroad people into doing things that they didn't want to do. So, where are we at? We're at magic words 18. There's 18, there's 19, there's 20, there's 21, 22. There are 23 sequences of words in this book. And we're about to dig into number 18. Before you make your mind up, moving somebody from a no to a yes is nearly impossible. Before you can move somebody to full agreement, your first action is to move them to a position of maybe. When you find yourself in a position in which the other person is leaning toward not choosing your idea, you can quickly move them back in your direction by prefacing your next action with another set of magic words. Before you make your mind up. Here are some examples of how you can use these words to keep the conversation alive. Look, before you make your mind up, let's make sure we've looked at all the facts. Before you make your mind up, why don't we just run through the details one more time so you can know what it is that you're saying no to. Before you make your mind up, wouldn't it make sense to speak to a few more people about the difference that this could make for you and your family? These simple examples can often move people from a position of no and allow the negotiation to continue by making them look at it from a different perspective. It is this shift in vantage point that then allows you to add alternative information to support your idea and increase your influence over their decision. Reminding you of one of our principles that we introduced earlier on in this video, which is that the worst time to think about the thing you're going to say is in the moment where you're saying it. I think it's worth giving consideration to at what moments would you benefit from creating a before you make your mind up moment. Where are there situations where people are swinging this way on the pendulum and you want them swinging this way on the pendulum? Where are the moments where you feel like you're losing things? Where are the moments that show up in your world where you feel like you'd like to be able to have another attempt at explaining to somebody why your idea is the right idea? Cuz those are the moments that you reach for a before you make your mind up statement. So before you make your mind up about where you're looking to be able to use those sequences of words, go looking for the precise moments that show up in your ongoing conversations where you are currently losing and and where what you can do is you can start to move people from the no to the maybe so you can explore the possibility of getting them to yes. Make sense? Okay, let's do 19. If I can, will you? Have you ever been in one of those scenarios in which your prospect or customer pushes back with reasons as to why they cannot do the thing you would like them to do? Perhaps they are looking for you to make a change from your standard terms or they would like you to offer an improved price. The same thing appears in our personal lives when people make excuses about why they cannot make it to events or celebrations. These situations are created by the other person delivering an external condition that is affecting their ability to move forward with your idea. They have removed themselves from the process and abdicated responsibility to something out of their control. You have the power in these situations to isolate this condition and remove the barrier by responding with a powerful question that eliminates their argument. This is achieved by using the question structure. If I can, then will you imagine that you want a friend to join you for a night out next Friday. Your friend says the reason they cannot join you is because the car is in for repair and the buses do not run that late. You could eliminate this challenge with a question. If I can pick you up and drop you off at home, then would you be able to get ready for 7:00 p.m.? The same principle can be used when someone is looking for you to reduce your price in line with a competitive offer. If I can match that price for you, then would you be happy to place the order with me today? In both these scenarios, you are still not obligated to meet the conditions presented, but you are in control of what happens next. You may receive further reasons and honesty from the other person that prevents you from moving forward. Or you may find that you gain their agreement. With their agreement to the condition, you can now present your best option to them and will be far more likely to reach your desired outcome. You have the power in these situations to remove the barrier by responding with a powerful question that eliminates the other person's argument. The words if I can, will you have been taught in the sales training environment for as far back as I can remember and a long time before that. What they are is an example of what's called a conditional close. A conditional close is if I can, will you? And its application is plentiful. We share some of the examples in the book there. But the reminder that might not have come through as loud as it it was written is you don't have to do the thing that they conditionally said yes to. So, if somebody says to you that that that your price is 1,000 and there's a competitor down the street that is 800 and they want you to match the price and you say, "Look, if I can do it for 800, then then will you give us the business?" And they say, "Yes, that doesn't mean you have to match the price. What it means is you found out that if all things were equal, they'd rather do business with you." Now, that must mean that all things are not equal. So if you say if I can do it for 800 then will you do it then will you give us the business and and they say yes you then say so what is it about us and our work that means you'd rather work with us if the price was the same and you want to hope they can tell you and if they can say well it's this and it's this and it's this and it's this and it's this and they can give you a list. You can then respond by saying, "Can you can you see why we're worth the 200 difference?" That, my friends, is called selling the gap. That's about us not trying to sell a 1,000 offer versus an 800 offer. That's about us selling the $200 difference. And can you see by how isolating what makes you different, you can demonstrate the value of a price differential by utilizing the magic words, "If I can, will you?" Yet in reality, in those scenarios, what is still often required is when you're pushed for a condition, the other person still wants to feel like they're getting some degree of a better deal than what most people would get in these environments. So even if you if I can will you and they say yes and you say, "What is it about us that means you'd rather do business with us if all other terms were the same?" And they give you a list and you say, "Well, can you see why that's worth the 200 difference?" And they say, "Well, yeah, I guess so." You still might then have to lead the dance from there and lead the conversation and you might have to look at a very direct question. See, it sounds to me like what you're looking for is just the best possible deal. And they're probably going to say yes. And from there, what you can do is you can present what you can do. And that might run something like this. It might say, "So I tell you, here's what I can do." And then you give a list back in the other direction of maybe non-financial consequences, intangible, soft, very practical, high value, lowcost additions that you can add into the agreement. And having then given back that list with positive energy, you might then hold out your hand and simply ask the question, does that sound fair? And when they answer that question, what you've done is you've successfully negotiated terms without giving away discounts and without giving away your margin. That is a bigger, more practical application of the words if I can, will you? So, we're at 20. I said there were 23. Has there been enough value in this video so far? Have you um got enough ideas of how you can further implement the magic words? And I mean, had you read the book before, or is this the first time that you've even come into contact with this? Is this you revisiting it or is this you um meeting it for the first time? Talk to us. Share in the comments. Tell us where you're coming in from or what you've taken so far. That way I know how we can get ready for what's next. cuz I I need to let you into a little secret is is this little book is nearly 10 years old and we are very much in the process of deciding what are we going to do to celebrate its 10th year anniversary and what are we going to do to create the so now what the what's next and I'm hoping that you might be able to help. So, please, please, pretty please, if there is information missing from this, if there was going to be a 10-year anniversary edition of of exactly what to say, what would you like to see in it that's not in this version of the book that you think might allow it to have an appreciating value in your life? Because for this to to keep going, then um I know we haven't done enough yet. And that, my friends, is the 20th sequence of magic words here in the book, Exactly What to Say, the Words Enough. This next word relates precisely to scenarios in which you are looking for others to make a decision on quantity or level of service. It's all about making it a lot easier for the other person to reach a little higher than they may have done otherwise. Taking the example of retail sales, there are countless occasions in which a customer deliberates over the quantity they should purchase of certain items. You can probably even relate. For instance, maybe at the grocery store, you've questioned the number of apples you should buy. In every set of circumstances in which you involve yourself in a decision-making process, you have the power to influence the actions of others. Consumers love to be led through the right thing to do. And assisting people in making their minds up is a skill that will help you reach the highest places. Jumping back to the scenario in the grocery store, let's imagine that you're deliberating between four apples and eight apples. If you were being served in that transaction and were asked the direct question, would eight apples be enough for you? Your instant response would be yes and the decision would be made. You'd be thinking in fact it's plenty. In business, your goals can be to have people come back for your products time and time again. Ensuring that they have the correct quantities to make a habit of using your products can be a key component of that. I'm sure that you've enjoyed the use of travel size toiletries but have never gone on to invest in the products yourself. yet you've purchased a three for two offer and this has often become your new brand of choice. A further example relates to the frequency of your transaction. Consider a service-based business like a hairdressers or a cleaning company. When scheduling the next appointments, they might recommend a repeat visit every 4 to 6 weeks. If this were true, then you could simplify the decision using the phrase, "Would every four weeks be enough for you?" and naturally guiding the customer into receiving an increased frequency of service. In every set of circumstances in which you involve yourself in the decision-making process, you have the power to influence the actions of others. Integrating this principle into all your conversations involving your business can have a huge impact on your results. Just imagine if every transaction contained one more unit. See, this use of word drives the recipient to answer the direct question. And yes becomes the path of least resistance. When used skillfully in situations in which somebody impressionable must choose between two options, you will almost always get them to pick the bigger one. I'm sure you can think of many similar scenarios in your own business. Understand that if you offer someone the choice between two numbers, you are likely to receive a 50/50 response. Yet, a direct question involving only the larger option and the magic word enough swings those odds far further in your direction. Integrating this principle into all conversations involving your business can have a huge impact on your results. Just imagine if every transaction contain just one more unit. Another thought we've learned in application with the words enough are are helpful when navigating difficult situations with customers who are less than perfectly satisfied. Take for example the situation where where maybe you've done everything you possibly can to try to create a win for somebody in their world and through no fault of your own they haven't got the result they were looking for and they're disappointed they're frustrated maybe they're even angry and they are they are blaming you for the lack of outcome they are aggressive towards you can actually challenge people with the question enough you can ask them like so are you saying we haven't done enough for you? Are you saying there wasn't enough that went into the plan? Are you saying that our effort was not enough to to your level of expectation? And you can watch how quickly people would back down. So although it's one of the most difficult to think about in application of all the words and exactly what to say, I'd like to think that there are enough opportunities for you to utilize the words enough with intention to be able to drive either somebody towards something higher or to create acceptance that what they've done is is more than enough or to increase the frequency of transaction inside your everyday business, allowing you to be able to get more from the same customer over the same time period. I think I've talked enough on that one right now. Three more to go. 21. Just one more thing. In sales training programs, it's typical to talk about the importance of an upsell. Inviting your consumer to purchase more at the point of transaction. The previous section showed a simple way of achieving this. Yet, a practice that is less common is the downell. A downell involves working on achieving a lesser objective if you failed to meet your primary objective in a conversation. Perhaps you went in looking for an agreement to a large long-term contract. A downell might be a first trial order. Or perhaps you wanted someone to partner with your business. The downell could be to try out your products as a customer. This set of magic words allows you to create that opportunity on your way out of a conversation. Instead of leaving with nothing, you can use these words for a further attempt. This technique was first introduced to me when watching crime dramas on TV and my grandparents house as a child. These shows introduced me to the possibility of um of being the greatest negotiator I've ever met, the television detective Columbbo, who was famous for a precise set of words. What he would do is he'd quiz his suspect, go through the rigmarole of gathering all the information he could, and then turn to leave. Just when the suspect was sure that they had got away with things, Columbo would turn back to them, and with his finger pointed upwards, say, "Oh, just one more thing." It was in this moment, when the suspect's guard was down, that he could ask his next question and receive the key information that he needed, the clue that would lead to him solving the crime. This lesson can translate into many scenarios in our lives, and here's just one of them. You meet with somebody to introduce them to your idea, and look to gain their commitment. They kind of like your ideas, but they're not so sure, and the meeting is coming to a close. You thank them for their time, pack up your things, and you head for the door. At this point, you could create a Columbombo moment and turn back to them with the words, "Just one more thing." When they think they've got away with not buying anything, you introduce a simple idea, something that is really easy for them to try, and you bring them into your world with a far smaller decision you had previously asked for. Examples of things you could add with a Columbombo moment include asking for them to sample a product, asking for them to commit to a smaller order, inviting them to an event, introducing them to someone you think they should know, asking them to do something for you, asking them a question that creates scarcity in your first offer. Using these moments and the magic words just one more thing keeps the conversation alive and can help you avoid leaving with nothing. So, what can you do with the words just one more thing? Well, my guess is that you're not in the business of solving crimes. But you could be in the business of creating Columbbo moments. I I'm pretty darn sure there are dozens of Columbbo moments that show up in your everyday life before you hang up the phone with a loved one, before you walk out of the door at home, before you wrap up a Zoom meeting, before you close out a back and forth on an Instagram chat. Is there the chance for you to be able to create a Columbombo moment and ask for just one more thing? The answer is of course there is. Look back over your last 12 months. How many Columbombo moments have you missed? See, some of the easiest things that we can ask for in the more category are yes, more business, whether it's an upsell or a downell, but we can also ask for more information like how did somebody hear about you or what is it they like about doing business with you? Or who else did they consider before choosing you? and all these important insights that can help you make more informed decisions about how you might shape your offers or what your marketing mix might look like in the future. But we can also ask for other things like referrals and reviews and introductions and is is if you've read this book and maybe you purchased it on a platform like Amazon or or wherever else you choose to get books and and I was looking to create a Columbbo moment with you and say for example that you reached out on a platform like Instagram or you reached out on a platform like LinkedIn and you made a comment that the book had been useful to you. I might allow some back and forth to happen and and for us to chat a touch on the platform and then maybe you might say just one more thing and you say, "Yeah, sure. What is it?" I say, "Where did you buy the book?" You might say, "Amazon." I might then ask, "Have you ever left an Amazon review?" And you're going to say, "Yes, no, or maybe." And if you say yes, I might say, "Well, um, how do you feel about leaving one for me?" And if you say no, I might say, "Well, how do you feel about us being your first?" And what I'm inviting you to realize is that there are Columbombo moments everywhere in our conversations. And please, please, pretty please stop just counting your conversations and instead start to make more of those conversations count. And I I guess with a couple of sequences of words to go and this chat that we've had here today that I should probably go on to make this conversation count. So here are the sequences of words number 22, the words of favor. Success in life and business is rarely achieved without the support of others. If you can do things that allow other people to help you achieve your goals, then the chance of you reaching them significantly increases. I'm sure that you've had many scenarios in which you've longed for someone else to do something that makes your life a little easier, that opens a door for you, or provides you with the information you need to make the progress you would like. As we reach the end of this book, perhaps you could do me a small favor. Think for a second about how you feel about me asking you that direct question. Could you do me a small favor? I'm pretty sure that in that split-second moment, you thought that you may be reasonably open to helping me with that. This is a simple and powerful set of magic words that you can use to get somebody to agree to to do just about anything before they even know what that thing is. The request of a favor almost always gains a unanimous agreement from the recipient. And the worst response possible is still a conditional yes, like depends what it is. Think of the things that you could ask people to do following their agreement to the favor you were asking of them. I'm sure your mind is boggled by the dozens of things that you could add to your list of wants and the people who could help you with them. In this book, I want to illustrate how much can be done with a powerful change of words. We can explore the application of these magic words using the topic of referrals. Growing a new customer base from your existing happy customers is a solid strategy for business growth. Yet, it is often not implemented at all. I believe that there are three main reasons people fail to ask others for referrals. One is they're too lazy. They can't be bothered. Maybe they're making too much money. Two is they don't know when to ask. And then third, they don't know how to ask. Let's consider the first option. Mostly it would relate to the people who do not read books. They do not listen to videos. They certainly don't get this far in a video of this nature and attend trainings or take their personal development seriously. This clearly does not describe you. So I guess we should consider the other two reasons when it comes to the timing. There are literally dozens of moments that you can ask for a referral. If you take the time to consider all the examples of good times, they will all have one thing in common. The other person is happy. When people are happy with you and what you've done for them, there are some simple words that nearly always feature. They express their happiness with the words, "Thank you." These words can easily trigger feelings of pride and selfworth in you. In addition to these feelings, it's important for you to understand the simplest reason of why other people say thank you. An expression of gratitude comes from the feeling of indebtedness. Put simply, when they say thank you, it's because they feel like they owe you something. The best time to ask for someone's help is when they feel indebted to you. All this means is the next time you hear the words thank you from your customer or prospect, use that as your cue to ask for more. Now that we have the timing, let's next determine how to ask. So, they've said thank you, which provides you with your cue to ask your first question. You couldn't do me a small favor, could you? This simple question gains an almost certain agreeable response and gives you instant permission to continue with the rest of your request. You can then go on to say, "You wouldn't happen to know." This throws down a challenge which makes people want to prove you wrong. Just one person. Just one person is reasonable because it seems a simple ask and they're more likely to think of someone by name. Someone who just like you. This has the person narrowing down the options and gives you more of the right prospects. Plus, it pays a subtle compliment. would benefit from and then emphasize the specific benefit or positive experience they've just thanked you for. Then shut up. So, how does that play? It says you couldn't do me a small favor. Your subconscious voice says yes. I say you wouldn't happen to know. Maybe just one person, someone who just like you that cares massively about how words impact their success in conversation has maybe read the book and wonders what to do next. You see how I've just put the script to work in this precise scenario. And my guess is you're thinking of someone. So where do we go from here? When they thought of somebody, you need to know where to go next. You probably see it in their body language. I can't see you. When they thought of someone though, what you say is you say, "Don't worry. I'm not looking for their details right now." But who was it you were thinking of? I mean, for real, who who was it you were thinking of? See, this automatically takes the pressure off. And the butt helps them recall only the final part of the sentence and find out when they're next likely to see or speak to that person. So, when are you next likely to see or speak to that person? Think and then I'm going to ask you this question. You couldn't do me a further favor, could you? I mean, you said yes the first time. Next time you see that person, could you share with them a little bit about how how you've enjoyed this extended video and see if they're perhaps open-minded to maybe clicking through and taking a watch too and see if it can help them in a similar way to how it's helped you. You're almost certainly going to be agreeable to that. And would it be okay if maybe you um click like or share on the video and see if some of your followers on your social platforms would be intrigued to to bump into it too. And I'm guessing you haven't got around to doing that yet because you're a person of your word. Either you're proudly be like, "I did it. I did it. I did it." Or there's a possibility that you're feeling again a level of indebtedness and realizing that now's the time to hit like. Now's the time to hit subscribe. Now's the time for you to be able to share. The magic in this is the crazy irony is if you slow the process down, you likely to speed up the outcome and end up having more meaningful interactions, more meaningful conversations with people that really get it. It provides you with qualified future customers who already have third party experience with your offerings as well as the permission to more likely make contact. I would take that over and name a number any day of the week. It's now time to do yourself a favor and look at all the things you can be asking of others, gaining their commitment before they even know what that thing is. Can you think of some favors you should be asking for? And I mean it folks is um I wasn't joking or just teaching when I was asking you to do us a favor is I love making these videos. I love sharing all things exactly what to say. I adore being able to help provide more meaningful insights about how you can show up and make more of your conversations count. But if you find this in any way useful, if you are keen for us to be able to make more of these kind of videos, if you're keen to go beyond the book and understand how you could know exactly what to say in more of life's high state conversations, then for real, hit the like button, hit the subscribe button, leave us a comment so we can do more of what it is that we're doing here together right now. I got one more sequence of words. 23. And how many did I say there were? 23. So this is the final sequence of words. The words just out of curiosity. There is one objection that people give in response to ideas that has always frustrated me. This objection is I just need some time to think about it. I'm not saying that people should feel rushed into decisions. It's just that my experience tells me this statement rarely means they are heading away to do a detailed analysis of the decision. They're just pushing the decision away to another day. Apply some context to this and consider that you have spent time responding to an inquiry, visiting a prospect, getting to know them and listening to their challenges. You then provide them with a detailed set of recommendations as to how you can help them achieve their objectives or overcome their challenges. And in return, they provide you this vague response that helps none in the discussion to reach closure. My concern is it's just not fair. I believe that if you have delivered your part correctly, then the other person at least owes you a little more transparency regarding their thoughts. On a receipt of this reply, I've often found myself wanting to shout, "What is it you want to think about?" I knew that if I could open up their true thoughts to me, I could probably help. The trouble was, I knew I couldn't really ask that because it would seem rude or obnoxious. So instead, I hear people in my situation say things like, "It's okay. No, no, no pressure. We're ready when you're ready." And walk away from the opportunity, hoping that time will fix it. This frustration has meant that I've had to find a way of getting a real answer from people by asking rude and obnoxious questions without sounding rude or obnoxious. What I want from their response is not a guaranteed commitment, but honesty in the discussion so that we can both know what the true obstacles are. What I discovered was that if I preface one of these direct questions with a certain set of magic words, then I could change rude and obnoxious into soft and fluffy. By finding a reason for my direct question and gaining permission to ask it, I instantly shift control of the conversation to me. The words I use to do this are just out of curiosity and they can be used as the perfect preface to many a direct question. Examples would include just out of curiosity, what is it specifically you need some time to think about? Or just out of curiosity, what would need to happen for you to make a decision over something like this? Or just out of curiosity, what is it that is stopping you from moving forward at this moment in time? In each of these examples, what is imperative is that you remain quiet following your question. Silence becomes your friends. You must not prejudge their answer or put words in their mouth. They now know they need to give you a proper answer. And one of two things will happen. The number one is that maybe 12 seconds goes by and this might feel like 3 weeks. They will then come back with a real honest answer and you can work with that transparency. The second option would be that the time runs on longer. This is good news. Bite your tongue, sit on your hands, do nothing, let the time go by. Jur during this elongated pause, they are hunting for an excuse and often realize they do not have one. They then respond with things like, you know what, you're right. There isn't anything to think about or there is nothing that needs to happen or there's nothing stopping me. It's the very fact that you were prepared to ask them the question they were not yet prepared to ask themselves that empowers them to make a decision you both know was right for them in the first place. Asking big, brave questions is exactly what you need to move from being just like everybody else to becoming a professional mind make maker upper. 23 sequences of words all in a relatively short period of time. And now in instead of people pirating exactly what to say as an audio book here on YouTube, then then then here's the official version with some extra notes from the author. And there is a final thought here. Shall I shall I read it? It says, "With all these words to consider, I'm sure you're now aware that reaching for the right words at the right time can make all the difference. There is one more thing I want to share with you. something that isn't necessarily a magic word. It's something though that can make a huge and profound difference to your level of success when you impart your knowledge and wisdom to others. One worry I hear from lots of people is the fear of being caught out when it comes to product knowledge about their business and industry and the need to have fantastic answers to every question. About a decade ago, which at this point means almost three, I met one of the most successful salespeople I've ever known. I was having a conversation with him about success. And this particular individual, Roger, was in the room when the very first text message was created. He had a long and illustrious career in the telecommunications industry. I remember talking to him about the changes in telephones moving from analog to digital. and he told me that he used to get questions from his customers all the time about how this new technology worked. The question resulted in him trying to explain the technological updates and dazzle them with his deep knowledge, only to be greeted by blank faces looking back at him. In one of those light bulb moments that change everything, Roger realized he was doing everything wrong. He thought his obligation was to actually tell them how this stuff worked. He quickly realized his responsibility was not to give them the answer. It was just to give them an answer. So he changed the way he answered the question. From that point onwards, when a customer asked him, "So how does all this stuff work?" he would respond with the words, "It works great." Nine times out of 10, his customers were delighted with that answer. Think now how this could work for you. When a customer or prospect asks you how things work, could you just answer great? When they ask what kind of results they could expect from from this, could could you answer like good ones? By giving an answer that is simple, that is effortless, that is positive and uplift uplifting that comes back at them in the other direction. Watch how it stuns people into a positive decision and empowers them to move forward as opposed to confusing them with facts. Everything you've learned in this book is simple. It's easy to do better. It it it works. What it does not do, though, is it it doesn't work with all of the people all of the time. It just works with most of the people most of the time. And there's a chance that what you're doing right now is is working with some of the people some of the time. So please do not try this once and tell me it did not work. Try it over and over again until it becomes natural. Bring it into everyday language. And the compound effect of those tiny improvements and subtle changes in language, the ability to know exactly what to say and the insertion of a few magic words could be just the tonic that takes your ambition, dedication, and drive with a few skills sprinkled on top and moves you from counting conversations to making conversations count. I wish you all the success that you're prepared to work for. Now, please enjoy the journey. So that was exactly what to say.