The goal of the storyteller is to take the audience through an
emotional and psychological journey that reveals a poignant truth
about the human experience.
Yes. That's what makes great movies. And novels. And plays.
But that same goal-to reveal a poignant truth about the human
experience—ls way too ambitious (and weighed down with far too muci
aggage) to work for a persuasion story in a business setting
As persuaders, we often just want to get from a no (or a maybe) to a
willingness to agree. We normally don't set out to take audiences on an
emotional roller-coaster ride to remind them of life's eternal truths.
So, once again, my advice is learn from, and enjoy hero's journey stories,
whenever you have the time and inclination. But please, leave them
where they belong-on the screens, on the stage, and on a novel's
printed page.
Another Way To Think About When To Use Persuasion Stories
I've given careful instructions and suggestions about exactly when and
where to use the six kinds of persuasion stories. But now I'd like to offer
another point of view. And that is, use them responsively-in accordance
with how your prospect is reacting to what you're saying at any given point
in your persuasion presentation.
This is something ad copywriters learn through experience, and they
develop it into an instinct. So do some top sales professionals. It's much
easier to figure out how your prospect is reacting, in an in-person
persuasion situation. You can tell a lot from facial expressions, body
language, questions and objections.
Persuasion stories are especially effective when you need to address
problems that stump many persuaders: confusion, uncertainty, and
outright objections.
Confusion-If you are introducing a new idea, or you have a product or
process that works in a superior way, you can use a story to clear up
your prospect's confusion. An I-couldn't-find-what-I-was-looking-for-so-
I-created-it-myself story, well told, can turn confusion into
understanding-and fascination. A story about something new or