Governor demands for his own children!"
He didn't stop there (or even go there). Instead, he went above and
beyond. In fact, he pretty much dispensed with the features-cows, land,
house-as necessary to mention but hardly that important, in his first
sentence.
But then, he did something really imaginative, something the people
gathered at the auction surely had not anticipated. Webster figured out
and very elegantly described a future unexpected benefit of living at this
farm. Namely, that the experiences you would get—at least for people
who like cold winters—would be about as close to heaven on earth as
you could get.
Unexpected benefits have a tremendous power in moving your case
forward when you are making an effort to persuade. In fact, it's fair to
say that one such benefit can do a lot of the heavy lifting for you-just as
it did for Daniel Webster's auction pitch.
Now, let's look at how this kind of story works in the 21st century. We
can look at an unexpected future benefit of an online course, by an
experienced lawyer, Donnie Brookes. This is a hypothetical course, as far
as I know, but it's based on a real out-of-print book on the same topic.
The sole purpose of the course is to show the student how to get through
many of life's problems safely and completely without hiring a lawyer—
problems most people assume they have to hire a lawyer to solve, but
actually don't, because they can solve them on their own.
The whole course is about solving problems without hiring a lawyer. But
that idea suddenly moves in an exciting new direction with this story:
In the final session, Donnie takes a welcome U-turn to clue you in
on what you need to know if-after you've looked at all the
alternatives—you've realized you must hire an attorney.
And there's no shame in that. Yes, in previous sessions, you
learned how to avoid getting a lawyer 95% of the time. But there
are certain situations in life where hiring an attorney is absolutely
necessary.
Even when you do, though, overpaying is not necessary, Donnie says. So