Lying to the FBI or to the police is generally illegal. Lying deliberately
while under oath in a courtroom is a crime, called perjury. Telling lies to
banks and insurance companies can have disastrous consequences. Lying
in advertising can have legal repercussions, under the Truth in
Advertising laws.
But in most other situations, lying is just part of everyday life. Sometimes
people compete to see who can come up with the most outrageous
stories. A lot of kidding, humor and stories about fishing are not based
on factual truth.
• Now, let's go to a second category: Fiction. Which includes novels,
plays, and movies. And video games.
In fictional stories, the rules about the acceptability of truth are a little
different. After all, since it's fiction, it's not actually true. So, let's face it:
Because fiction is made up, it is in fact a series of lies.
But that's OK.
Because there is an implicit agreement between the writer of fiction and
their audience. The agreement is: It's fine for the writer to lie, as long as
it's entertaining. And, as long as it's clearly labeled as fiction.
No one in their right mind would begin an actual movie or TV show by
saying "What you are about to watch is nothing but a pack of lies." That
would kind of kill the mood, don't you think?
So instead, they start with legalistic labels like "The following story is
fictional and does not depict any actual person, entity or event." You
may also see this label: "Inspired by true events." And occasionally, a
sarcastic one like, "The following story is true. None of this actually
happened."
But, in reality, what they are saying is, "What you are about to watch is,
in fact, a series of lies."
Celebrated screenwriter William Goldman made no bones about it—
when he wasn't actually writing for the screen, of course. In his book
Which Lie Did I Tell?, he's loud and proud:
Storytellers tell lies. We must. Story ideas surround us, but they
need shading, shaping, climaxes, beginnings; that's our job. What