Mark Twain is famous for saying:
I didn't have time to write you a short letter, so I wrote you a long
one.
It's a funny statement, because it's a paradox. Why in the world would it
take longer to write a short letter than to write a long one?
We'll get to why in a bit. But first, please understand this problem was
not unique to Mark Twain.
French mathematician Blaise Pascal, Americans Benjamin Franklin,
Henry David Thoreau, Woodrow Wilson, English philosopher John
Locke and many, many others have said the same thing, each in their
own way, about short expressions taking more time to write than long
ones.
I've coached a lot of persuasion writers who also have had this problem.
One writer came up with a great process. It didn't shorten the overall
time it took him to write. But his solution proved conclusively that a
shorter persuasion story, when done right, outperformed a longer version
of the same story—in terms of sales results.
What he would do was write a solid, long sales email and test its
persuasive effectiveness, measuring results statistically. Then, he would
boil the longer email down to a shorter version, and test that one. The
shorter version always outperformed the longer one in the marketplace.
More clicks on the link, higher conversion rates, and greater profits.
But... the shorter version took longer to write. Because he had to
condense his good ideas into fewer words.
I believe the reason it takes most people longer to write shorter, simpler
stories (or emails) is: You can't see in your internal mental landscape all
the elements of a story, and then pick out the few most powerful,
effective elements, and arrange them, to create the best short version.
You need to get all the story elements out on paper (or a computer
screen) in order to begin this survey of the elements.
Then, you need to spend some time mulling everything over to find the
bare minimum of elements you need to make the story work. One way to
do it is to start by writing the whole story in just one sentence. That will