And benefit tremendously from them.
You may already know that Igor's a British lawyer (graduate of
ixeter University) who stopped practicing law to do something
more personally meaningful, that he felt could help more people
He set out on a personal quest to discover the hidden secrets of
hypnosis.
Igor has been called "The Indiana Jones of Hypnosis" because he
didn't stop with the standard schools and seminars. He went
everywhere... including to such far, out-of-the-way places as the
dense, menacing jungle of Peru, where shamans lead seekers on
journeys into unexplored regions of "inner space."
Notice that this story does more than establish Igor's credentials as an
innovative instructor. You also know that he's smart and disciplined (he
has a law degree) and that his motivations are not narrowly selfish (he
finds helping others personally meaningful).
There's a bit of storytelling romance in the description of his journey in
the last paragraph. Calling him "The Indiana Jones of Hypnosis" adds a
swashbückling sense of adventure to his quest. And a glimpse into his
travels in Peru implies that the prospect will get knowledge and wisdom
from Igor that they won't get from an ordinary hypnosis teacher.
How to create a Qualifications/Track Record Origin Story
To create a story like this, first make a list of all the things you, or the
expert you're writing about, have done to get to this point. All of them—
don't skimp. You're not going to use everything you've written, but it's
better to have more than you need, so you'll have a good selection when
you end up with the few key elements you're going to eventually use in
the story itself.
Next, make a list of qualifications, awards, degrees and other indicators
of recognition by others that show why this person is an expert.
Finally, make a third list where you take the most important and
interesting items from the first and second lists. The idea here is to do the
most with the least. If you have 20 items, but you can write a convincing
story with only five of those items, just put those five on the list.
Now that you have your pared-down list of ingredients, use them to