up where you need it most-in your hips and thighs, in that
bulging tummy, under your chin and around the neck, even in
that sagging upper arm. They'll put new grace in your steps-give
you a posture and a figure and a walk that can stop men in their
tracks a full block behind you!
Wow. What a story. I found it so compelling that I tracked down an out-
of-print copy of the book and ordered it myself. Gotta know what those
secrets are!
This is a mechanism story because it explains in great detail how the
live-to-100 process works. It's important to note that it doesn't give away
so much information that you can do the process without having and
reading the book-that's the persuasive part.
But it does explain there's a "self-preservation routine" medical science
"proved in Europe" that reduced bed-ridden illnesses to people who
tried it—and that "medical science in Ohio" has proven this same routine
increases life expectancy.
Also, notice the specific information about "SIX SECOND ISOMETRIC
EXERCISES." While you don't find out what these exercises are, you do
learn that they were recommended by the Illinois State Medical
Association—and that Olympic trainers kept them "top secret."
Further detailing of the mechanism includes the specific effects the
exercises have
on men-"straighten your back, broaden your
shoulders... pull in your stomach"-and on women-"firm you up
where you need it most-in your hips and thighs, in that bulging
tummy, under your chin and around the neck, even in that sagging
upper arm."
The big takeaway from this story is how well facts, backed up by citing
authorities (medical authorities and associations) can make for a
compelling story. And that your prospect can imagine themself doing the
same thing as mentioned in the story, and getting the same kind of
results.
A story like this today might need a few disclaimers to pass muster in
the regulatory space. It seems like the copywriter did their homework
and has documentation of studies and endorsements that back up the
claims. But to be on the safe side, a version of "your results may vary"