of what you're saying. So much better to say, "Mr. Acme shared the
company's mission statement with employees.
Remember, your prospects only have a limited amount of mental energy.
You want them to put as much of that energy as possible into
understanding, and even experiencing, your story-and not put it into
trying to figure out what in the world you might be talking about.
Don't succumb to the temptation to be "creative" and "original" by using
exotic words, ideas and situations. If you're talking about a kitchen in
someone's house, call it a kitchen, not a Gourmet Food Preparation
Center. (
When you are quoting someone, say "she said," not "she
averred." When two people were having a conversation, say "they were
having a conversation," not "they were communicating, on an interactive
verbal level."
An important job for a persuasion story is to be transparent. In the sense
that you don't set up fancy verbal window dressing or hood ornaments
that block the view of the persuasion information itself. "Transparent" in
this case means "nearly invisible." Your story should not scream out,
"Hey, lookee here! This is a souped-up, fancy-dancy PERSUASION
story!" Instead, it should come across as straightforward and everyday, if
you want it to be most effective.
Writers of all kinds who want to reach large numbers of people routinely
follow this rule as part of the way they work. It's simply how they write.
As a persuasion storyteller, your overall goal with your stories is
different (your goal is primarily to persuade, not to entertain), but your
writing-style goal should be the same: To keep the prospect's attention
on what you're saying, and not on a flamboyant, unconventional way of
saying it. They'll stay focused on your story if you use familiar words
and situations.
STRATEGY 4: POWERFUL STORIES ARE RELATABLE.
One of Hollywood's greatest creations is the illusion of relatability.
Consider the blockbuster movie E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial. The first eight
minutes show a spaceship full of aliens with four fingers on each hand