He's been inducted into the marketing hall of fame. He's the mind behind modern classics like Purple Cow, Tribes, Lynchpin, The Dip, This Is Marketing, This Is Strategy, and so many more. The kind of books that you don't just read, they get underlined, quoted in boardrooms, and echoed by creators everywhere. He's the author of 21 bestselling books translated into more than 35 languages and he spent decades helping people see the world and their work a little differently. Please welcome Seth Goden. >> Thank you for being here, Seth. Really appreciate it. >> What a treat. It's really fun to talk to both of you. >> I Well, we're ready for an amazing amazing journey and story together. Um, we as podcasters are now doing this in the physical world. Um, because we're primarily in the digital world, but every time that Shannon and I start a story, a new story, we always try to

start something a little bit different than most, a little bit more uh, research driven or creative. So, we're going to throw you with this one. In 1994, you published the information please business almanac, a kind of pre- internet attempt to organize useful useful knowledge long before Google or chat GPT ever existed. If you were to write that book today in an age where AI can index almost everything, how would how would it read and would you say tools like chat dbt are fulfilling that mission or breaking it? >> It's a great place to start. So the almanac was the culmination of my work as a book packager. Book packagers invent ideas, bring them to publishers, books that are too hard for any single person to make. So it was seven people working together for nine months to make an 800page researched book filled with tables and charts and articles. And it was going to be my life's work. I would

have a new edition every year forever. And a year and a half after it came out, uh, the internet showed up and it became worthless. It was still something I was glad I made. It was needed to have this thing on your desk. It was, for example, we had the number for the Hawaii Public Library because if you're working late in New York, you could call Hawaii and still get an answer to your question because they were open, right? Um, so what would it say today? It would be one sheet of paper, [laughter] right? Look it up your damn self at the end. And that's I think the thing that people don't understand yet about uh LLMs and AI. >> It's a little bit like a talking dog. If you run into a talking dog, you shouldn't believe everything it says, but you also shouldn't dismiss it as a novelty because it's a talking dog, right? And what a lot of people are doing is showing up with AI and saying,

"Here are my problems. Solve them." they're giving it all their work away. Don't do that. Give AI tasks and you do projects >> that when you have this assistant who works basically for free all the time for you, >> you can go so much faster if you're willing to do the scary work, but you can't outsource the scary work because if you do that, you got nothing left. >> Couldn't agree more. I I think this is a perfect segue to the first official question uh which is and I think we could all agree that regardless of AI it's all about storytelling and we'd like to take this conversation uh to a journey more specifically about your two most recent books this is marketing and this is strategy so let's set the tone today's topic and the entire purpose of this wonderful event is AI in a recent interview to describe AI like the weather so today an amazing beautiful

day here in Philadelphia Pennsylvania said, "What is the weather?" >> You know, I learned a long time ago you shouldn't judge a day by the weather because you're giving away your agency. We're not on Saturn. We're not on Jupiter. We live in a world where we can survive or maybe even thrive. And every day has something wrong with it. Every day has a defect that you can say, "Well, I'm going to have to wait for perfect." But if we wait for perfect, we're going to be waiting a very long time. So, we have today, this moment. What are we going to do with it? How can we focus on possibility and not try to let ourselves off the hook? So, today in Philadelphia, and it's so cool to be with you two in person. Yeah, it's sunny and you can walk outside and you have a chance to make things better. So, why not? >> I love it. So, we're going to start uh with this is marketing uh and then we're

going to gradually uh go to this is strategy. Um you went from I believe one hour a day to true creativity uh to seven with AI. Um what specific constraints did AI remove that unlock the extra six hours? So think about all the tasks you do every day. All the meetings you have to go to, emails you have to answer, pencils you have to sharpen, all the stuff. These tasks can consume us. Many people I know do nothing but tasks all day long. What did you do today? Well, I cleared my email box. I went to these meetings. I sharpened these pencils. I filled out the spreadsheet. I went to work. But that's not what we make anymore. We make change. If you're not making a change happen, why did you show up? What is a marketer doing if they're not making a change happen? They're just entertaining us. Why? Right? Marketing exists to make a change happen. So if that's the case and you have this squadron of uh AI

workers ready to help you and you have a partner in the sense that something like Claude can encourage you, you can get rid of all the tasks. So now I can't say I had a really productive day if I was only creative for an hour because when I'm creative for an hour that's 45 minutes more than most people because I don't have meetings and I don't have a team. It's just me. But now because all my tasks are done by an AI, I better be creative for 7 hours or I've just wasted a day. >> Yeah. >> How do you stay creative for seven hours? Because I think a lot of people have a difficulty with um grappling with the idea that creativity has like a halt sometimes. >> Exactly. >> So, how do you what what inspires you to be able to keep going for that many hours of the day? So let's talk about creativity and let's talk about

attachment. What is creativity for? What is innovation for? It's to solve a problem that uh if you have a lock without a key, it's not worth very much. But if you have a pile of keys, they're worth zero because if you don't have a problem you can open with them while you even have them. So, it's very easy to get attached to the idea that creative work isn't worth trying unless we're sure it's going to work. >> This is called attachment. I'm not willing to do this unless I know it's going to work. So, I become very focused on the outcome. But if we become focused on the outcome, we give up our practice. We give up our process. One way to think about attachment is this. Let's say you and I want to swim across a lake. The safe thing for us to do would be for us to stay about five or six feet apart and swim. And if one of us gets into trouble, the other one could help. The foolish thing would be

for me to tie one rope to your arm, another rope, four ropes, four arms and legs. We're attached. If we do that, we're going to die, right? Because when we seek to get attached to this outcome, we take our eyes off what it actually is to be creative. So I was fortunate over the years to build up this muscle that says this might not work. I say it to myself all the time. So many organizations have trouble saying that. If you went to client meetings and began your pitch with this might not work, your pitches wouldn't go very well. You need to be able to say this is going to work, right? No, that's not where creativity lies. Creativity lies in this is worth trying, but it might not work. >> Yeah. >> And so every day I just get to do that because sometimes the outcomes are fine and they pay for me to do it again, but I'm not attached. >> Yeah.

So when when it comes to the marketing, I think we could all agree storytelling is is pre prevalent in in order to separate yourself from your competition. But if we can kind of go relatively elementary, what actually is good marketing? Or at least what is it to you? >> Well, I get to decide because I'm in the marketing office. [laughter] Uh >> the king of marketing. >> Marketing is not hype. It's not hustle. It's not lying. And it's not even promotion. We have words for all of those things. Those words are not marketing. I just told you what those words were. Marketing is telling a true story to people who want to hear it that helps them get to where they want to go. In order to do that, you have to build the story. The product has to match, right? So when Volkswagen uh decides to defraud millions of people by faking the

emissions of their diesel things to to fool the government, that was a marketing choice >> and it cost them billions of dollars because no longer could they tell a true story about what they were selling. They decided not to do that. >> And so if you say, "I got to get the word out." Well, you've already made your first mistake. Marketing is not getting the word out. Marketing is making something that people would miss if they were gone. If it were gone and that they want to tell the others you don't get the word out, they get the word out. [clears throat] >> How do you make, you know, how do you do that? Right? Because, and I'll just speak for example, you know, we can go on chat GBT or any other of the AI and say, "Hey, tell me what to say in my social media post for the next 30 days." And you can obtain relatively decent content, right? But

sometimes it doesn't come off as genuine as as you'd want. Is is that necessarily a bad thing or do you feel like more people should should try something a different potentially a different approach to be able to have that authentic voice when you're speaking? >> All right, we're going to break this into pieces because you said a hot button word for me. We'll start with that. [laughter] Authenticity is a croc. People do not want you to be authentic. >> They want you to be consistent. If we go to a surgeon and that surgeon had a really really bad night's sleep and was having a bad day, we don't want them to authentically do a bad job of surgery, right? That's not why we went. >> Fair point. >> We want professionals to be consistent. >> So, social media turns this upside down because every once in a while somebody in Amy Winehouse character is

authentically disastrous and it draws a crowd. So, we've now decided that the way to be successful in social media is to put on a show. Yeah. and to, you know, bury your soul and whatever and it breaks people. Don't do this. That's not what professionals do. Instead, say, "My goal is not the biggest possible social media following. It's the right people, and I'm going to make a promise to these people about what they get from me, and the purpose of this work is to create enough tension for change to happen. I'm not an unpaid employee of Mark Zuckerberg. Instead, I'm here for a reason. And the reason is to create the conditions for you to decide that your life would be better if you transact >> with my brand, with me. >> Yeah. >> If within those constraints, Claude or Chat GBT can write all your posts. Fine. That's right. Every author I know uses a spell check. Does that

mean they're cheating? Spell checks AI. So, yeah, fine. Because we're not here to understand the true Jonathan. We're here to engage with the version of Jonathan that we know and care about. But that doesn't mean we know you. We know your avatar. >> But what about the hook? Because I think for from me, and maybe you might agree, uh there's so much good content that we get consumed by it. Hence why the scrolling world exists. But then when you like something from someone, to me, I feel like a lot of people drop off at the at the at the sale, you know, hey, uh, sign up for a newsletter or sign up for a, um, >> you know, a $1,000 ticket uh, in order to be a part of this mentorship program or or I always feel like that that is the disingenuous part uh is is the is the catch or is the call to action. Do you have any opinions or thoughts on that?

When people buy from you, you're not asking them to do you a favor. You're offering them a favor. If that's not true, then you don't really understand what you are marketing. >> So, let's say uh I have a a falconry facility in Gan, New York, where you can actually uh get a Hawk and fly it. Now, that's not free. That costs $400. It's lifechanging, and you can go do it. Does everyone want to go do this? Can everyone afford to do this? Of course not. So if on social media I'm posting pictures of the Screech Owl and I'm posting pictures of the Gossling Hawk and I'm posting pictures of the Paragan. Fine. Some people are going to watch that because it's free TV, but some people are going to say I need to be in that spot. And then I can say, okay, >> I will do you a favor and I will exchange $400 for a chance for you to join me here. and we're only open these windows of time and when it's full, it's

full. So, I've created tension because now you know you had the chance to do this. You know that not everyone gets to do this. You know that you could afford it if you wanted to. Do you want to come? There's no challenge here because all the people who don't want to come, great. Thanks for considering it. All the people who do want to come, we're meeting at 9:00 a.m. The end. Right? So, where we get into trouble is when we make average stuff for average people. >> When we say, "You can pick anyone and I'm anyone. Please, please, I worked very hard. Come buy something from me." >> That's not what we're in the business of doing. We make souvenirs of our story. If someone wants to buy the souvenir, they buy the souvenir, but we don't have to hustle for them to buy it. >> Yeah. I >> Oh, go ahead. Well, um, with the explanation that you just had with finding that group that you want to

market to that you should niche down to, if >> don't say down, >> niche [laughter] up, >> niche up, you correct. >> Um, how do you find that without being authentically yourself? Because if that is your personal brand is being you, then how do you find the right people if you're not being genuine all the time? I think it's a real mistake for your personal brand to be you >> because if your personal brand is you and someone rejects it, that hurts. They saw you and they don't like you, right? You're playing a role. Paul McCartney is playing a role. I am playing a role. I don't talk like this at breakfast, right? I am consistent in this role. And I don't think I'm a fraud. In fact, I think I'm the opposite because I'm consistent. If you read a Seth Goden blog post, yes, I wrote it myself, but it just needs to sound like a Seth Goden

blog post. That's what makes it real. And so showing up in the world, whether you're AT&T or a soloreneur, is about making a promise and keeping it. And where we get really frustrated is when the promise is clearly fraudulent. When they say one thing and do another. When we look behind the the Gerber baby food factory and we see that they're putting other stuff in. It might even be not poisonous, but they said that they were pure and and then they're not. That's a different sort of authenticity. That's consistency or not delivering on that. So I think the trap of social media which should be avoided by most people is we got seduced and indoctrinated into thinking first step be famous, second step ask for a favor, third step people send you money if you're authentic enough. None of those three steps make any sense to me. >> Yeah, 100%. Well, how then do you find

that person that you want to be? >> Exactly. Right. So I call this the smallest viable audience, not the biggest possible audience. Now it could be a very very large number of people. The number of people in Patagonia's smallest viable audience is 10 million. Number of people who have bought a book from me in the United States is 3 million. That means and none of them none none of my books have sold three million copies. That means to a rounding error my market share in the United States is zero. That's fine. It's enough. Right? So when we're inventing the product, right? Let's say we're we're we're building a a digital platform for that replaces agencies or we're building a platform say if we could pick any customers we wanted just 10 who would they be can we imagine them even by name what do they like what don't they like and ignore everybody else shun the non-believers if you make

something for the smallest viable audience that is so irresistible and so remarkable that they talk about it your problems are solved but if you try to make average stuff for average people, you're always going to be struggling. >> I think there's a a pretty nice segue into the strategy piece because I think that's where it kind of comes in because um selfishly speaking when when I started my career, it was like, well, everybody needs this and then everybody really doesn't need it, >> right? >> I think they need it and therefore I should market to every single person. So I think maybe you can kind of speak to the strategy piece because and why do we why do you think we as a culture and a society are consist consistently wanting to to appease everyone, right? So systems are real and we can talk about systems for a bunch, but it begins with the indoctrination of school. school was

invented by industrialists because they were worried that they would run out of obedient compliant factory workers and it's based on the Prussian paramilitary education system of the late 1800s. And we built it on purpose. You process people for a year. If they're defective, you move them back and reprocess them. If not, you graduate them to the next thing. We give them tests. We mark the tests. We standardize all the stuff. What's the worst thing that could happen to you? You fail. What's the worst thing that happens to you is someone in power criticizes you. That then we set all these, you know, hormone-filled 15-year-olds free in the cafeteria and now social pressure kicks in. You have to wear exactly the right clothes for this group to like you. And if you get criticized or made fun of, all these bad things happen. So we by the time a kid is 18 years old, it's deep inside of them. That that's how you succeed.

>> That it's very easy to seduce an author into reading their reviews on Amazon, which makes no sense. They're not going to write that book again. Why do they need to know what someone thought? A one-star review and great authors, right? Way better than me. Fcott Fitzgerald, plenty of one-star reviews. That doesn't mean it's a bad book. It means the person who wrote the review said, "This is not for me." >> That gives the author no information whatsoever. Right? It's not for me. Okay, I get it. And people who speak Italian, if you buy the US edition, the English edition, it's not for you. I get it. So, what we've got to do as professionals is eagerly send prospects to our competition to be able to say, you walk into a Ferrari dealership and you say, "Look, I got five kids. I got to do carpool." And you don't try to persuade them to buy an Enzo, right? They say,

"Well, the kids can all sit on each other's laps." You say, "My brother-in-law has a Volvo dealership. It's right down the street." That's a generous thing to do. Send them to someone who can help them. But if you're not qualifying your customers, if you're not qualifying them and saying, "This isn't for you, then you're not a professional." to to speak on that qualifying. Um I think people get that wrong most most times or at least make it more difficult than what it actually is. Um a conversation I had the other day it was like well I I have a product I have an idea but I don't necessarily know the product fit. How how do you actually qualify? I think you have to start in the other direction. Who's it for is the first question. The second question is what's it for? Don't start with what's it for. Start with who's it for? The person who

has this problem, right? The the the legend of OXO, the the person who was the brains behind it was suffering, I think, from arthritis. And she persuaded her husband to start this company. She said, "Look, there are a lot of people who are having trouble opening cans and opening bottles. That's who it's for. What's it for? Make something that's beautifully designed that helps them that other people who don't have that problem will also want to buy." Now we know the who's it for. Now we know the what's it for. And if someone says I want a 39 cent can opener, we say this one's not for you. Go down over there. They sell cheap ones. This is a can opener worth paying for. >> Everything else after that takes care of itself. >> Yeah. >> Most people don't do that. They say I have this great idea for who? It's not a great idea for everyone. That's a given.

So who is it for? When you focus on an audience so much, do you then maybe risk the danger of getting the audience wrong? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. This isn't for amateurs. This is hard. And I I mean, I've done it wrong so many times. I've failed more than most people. the beginning of my career when I was selling books as a book packager, I assumed that the audience were business people at book publishers because I wanted them to give me $100,000 for me to make a book. They're business people. That's what business people do. So, I brought spreadsheets and I wore a suit and I brought market analysis and in the first year after I sold my first book, I got 800 rejection letters in a row. 800 times people in book publishing said, "We looked at this, we thought about this." No, >> I arriving rivaling JK Rowling with that one.

>> Yeah, it was it was a long slog. And then I met this guy John Boswell and John took me to his office and he showed me that what he was doing was he was word processing his book proposals. This is 1987. and then giving them to a secretary who would type them on a manual typewriter on onion skin paper with carbon paper because the story was he was a real author. He wasn't running a factory. And what I discovered is when I went to these underpaid, underappreciated book editors and said, "Let's talk together about the human vision you have for books and not mention at all whether it's going to sell." They got excited. And then I was in business. And I still wanted to make books that readers wanted to buy, but my story to publishers wasn't, "Let's make money for you." My story to them was this is a book you'd be proud to publish. >> So you have to change the way in which

you're going to the audience if it >> and if you're wrong like if you write a book called All Marketers Are Liars and you're trying to get marketers to buy it, you probably made a mistake and I did. [laughter] >> Do do you think the same would be true for corporate America who might already have a pre-existing product and already have a belief system and market analytics and data behind that? Businessto business selling is just like selling to consumers except it's somebody else's money. All the people you're you're selling to in a in a corporate America environment are asking themselves one question. What will I tell my boss? >> If you don't give them a good answer, they're going to buy the cheap one. Yeah. >> Or the one they used to buy. >> Yeah. But if you can say this is going to raise your status in the organization

or you're falling behind your competition or some emotional thing that they can race to their boss and tell them that's how you get a sale. I'm just thinking about the so focusing so much on the consumer or the buyer or who you're marketing to. What if that changes over time based off of like climate? Like for example, COVID changed a lot of things. Um, how if you're hyperfocused on creating your brand around that original audience, how do you segue into a new audience when that changes without seeming inauthentic or >> inconsistent? Yes. Uh, it's going to change. It's not will it, it's going to. That's why you even have an opportunity because if it wasn't changing, your competition would already be fine. It it's when the systems change that things occur. So what do we sell? We only sell maybe four things. We sell status, affiliation, the freedom from fear, and convenience. That's it. Status. It's not

just money. It's who eats lunch first. Status is up and who's down. Hollywood does not make movies. Hollywood makes status. And the movies are a souvenir of their status machine. They don't make money. They don't make movies seeking to make the most amount of money. They make movies to make the most amount of status for the people who are involved. Okay. Affiliation. People like us do things like this. Who's to your left? Who's to your right? Who are you part of? So, if we look at those two ones first and we think about something like Patagonia, you can get warm way cheaper with somebody other than Patagonia. Patagonia began by making small little metal pythons that would that mountain climbers would use. There was only 10,000 people in their smallest viable audience. That's it. And they began by serving people who self-identified as dirt bags. And that's not how you build a multi-billion dollar company. Except

it is because what they stood for status and affiliation. >> Freedom of fear involves I don't want to be left behind. I don't want to die. All these other things. And convenience, as Tim Woo has pointed out, is the extraordinary third rail that once someone offers convenience, everybody gives up everything else because we've been indoctrinated to do that. >> If you start with that, now you can shift gears. >> So, Louis Vuitton, multi multi-billion dollar company, began by making trunks by hand for incredibly wealthy European aristocrats. Now, the last time I checked, 25% of all the women in Japan had an a Louis Vuitton handbag. 25%. Why? They have lots of ways to carry their stuff, but they don't have an easier way to get status or affiliation. >> So, you're saying that if you go into the brand with the right kind of strategy, with how you're organizing

things, you can kind of switch gears in an easier way. even if the um audience changes in a considerable way. >> Most great brands don't make a product. They make a story. And the story is bigger than the product. Which means that when the world changes, the story can probably be applied to a different solution to a different problem. I'm still >> Go ahead. [laughter] >> I >> This is a big This is a very big idea that I got here. >> So if if you have Okay. So say you want to create more products or or something you want to add services then that changes your brand slightly, right? and could increase or change the audience. How do you switch gears with that? Because it's still even though let's pick a specific example like a famous one like Nike or Apple or a small little Philadelphia business

like Goldie. What What do you want to pick? I'll pick anything you want. >> We'll go we'll go big. We'll go Nike. >> Okay. So, what is Nike's brand? >> Nike is sports. >> If [laughter] N if But there are other brands there are other brands that do things like sports like Puma, right? it. Hyatt is a hotel, right? If Hyatt came out with a brand of sneakers, we have no idea what it would be like. >> Yeah. >> It would just be boring, but we have no idea. >> Maybe they'd be like really comfortable for hotels, you know? >> If Nike announced they were going to open a hotel, we know exactly what it would be like >> because Nike has a brand. >> Hyatt has a logo. Big difference. >> Yeah. >> So, Nike shows up and Phil Knight and his partner use a waffle iron. They make

sneakers for no more than 500 people in the United States could be their target. But from the very first day, they stood for exactly one thing, which is beating the competition. And there are statues on the Nike campus, full-size, of people who have extended themselves. The key to the Nike legend is he had a deal with Sears and it was all right, we're willing to sell Nike and Sears, but you must never put us in the Sunday Circular because we our brand doesn't belong there. And some mid-level person at Sears made a mistake and they put it in the Sunday Circular. Nike pulled all their sneakers from every store >> and it was a lot of money for Sears. Sears calls and calls and calls. Phil won't take their call. So finally they pull every string they can and they talk to a receptionist or somebody and they say if we fly in well she says you can fly in. So they send two very senior people to headquarters which is far from

Chicago and Phil has these guys wait in the lobby for eight and a half hours so that every single person who worked at Nike could watch them as they paraded back and forth and then he sends them home without even meeting with them >> because that's what Nike stands for. So now Nike can sell velour sweatshirts to couch potatoes. The product has changed completely, but the story is still the same story, which is if in your head you want to feel like an exceptional couch potato, here's a here's a $19 sweatshirt. So would you recommend if someone wanted to um maybe um they already have a brand and they wanted to create a new product or something that is wildly different than the initial one. Would you recommend that they use that segue strategy or would you recommend that they just open another business? >> A lot of people who think they have a brand don't have a brand. They have a

product that they care a lot about. They've said you can pick anyone and we're anyone that if they disappeared I just call the next plumber in the phone book. My plumber doesn't pro the probably doesn't have a brand. Okay. If you are visualizing a line of innovative products it's worth taking a breath and saying does this keep the same promise to the same kind of people. If it does, I can call this watch an Apple Watch because Apple makes luxury goods for people who aspire to have good taste about digital interaction. They don't make computers. They make that. >> So, they can extend in a bunch of interesting directions. They probably shouldn't come out with snack food because >> apples, >> even if it's >> apple branded apples. >> Exactly. [laughter] >> But it will undermine the position of

the big brand. So lots, you know, so when I was a book packager, my books were all over the place. I did books about gardening. I did the gorilla marketing books. I did books on um uh interior design and things, but my brand to the book publishers was I never miss a budget. I never miss a deadline. And I'm a little weird. So like, if you want the normal thing, I'm not going to be able to help you. But those three things you're going to get from me if I bring you a book. >> And that's consistency. and to the to the public. I'd put different authors names on things. So when when I did a series of novels about Nintendo games, my name wasn't on the cover because nine-year-old boys didn't know who I was. And so we get to pick who we're telling the story to and what the story is. >> Okay. So would So what you're saying is and it kind of sounds like you can kind

of strategically change your brand voice for those populations because you are technically your brand, right? So and you have done many different things with that, but you're kind of picking different personas as in um to reflect what you're selling. Is that what you're saying? >> Yeah. Well, once I became the logo of the brand, you know, the face and the other, now my options are more limited. >> So, uh, I wrote a book about, uh, mimedics and evolution. I had Charles Darwin write the forward, which is not easy because he's dead. And it took a year of my life to create. I worked harder on that book than any other book. >> And it was a bomb. It got me kicked out of publishing. It didn't work because my brand at the time stood for this is the marketing guy and all of a sudden here's a book about evolution. I would get up to give a talk and I would just watch people's eyes instantly glaze over

because most people in the population don't want to talk about evolution. >> It makes them nervous. They don't understand it. They don't want to learn more about it. They're done. >> Scared. >> And I was like, "Okay, now I have a choice. I can become uh the person who's just going to keep writing books that interest me and watch my sales go lower and lower and lower. Or I could say, what do the people who trust me want from me? How can I expand that area that I'm talking to them about without going too far outside the Overton window? Because if you do that, it breaks. I would say most most people may not be as adventurous or willing to fail as much as you have. Uh what would you say to those people that may not have that have that anxiety of of actually failing um and being able to get back up as as many and often as you have?

>> Yeah. Well, it and I totally feel them. It's not easy. But just saying it that clearly is why >> you're frustrated and having trouble because you're afraid to fail. You're attached to the outcome. You've walked away from the practice. You've walked away from the process. And now you are failing because you're afraid to fail. And so what we need to do is make it so that failure is really cheap. And we need to make it so that shipping is not a big piece of drama. So what does that mean? It means if you want to open a flower store, do not shut down your career as a dermatologist and invest your life savings and open a flower store. That's too scary. Instead, get a job on the weekends working four hours in a flower store. It will cost you nothing. In fact, they'll pay you to do that. And then while you're there, try seven different things to say to people when they walk in the store. The

worst that'll happen is they'll walk out. You don't care. It's not even your store. And now you're starting to become an expert on what are these interactions like? You failed and failed and failed in these tiny ways that no one else is even seeing. And that's part of the beauty of my blog. You know, I hit 10,000 posts a few months ago. Half my blog posts are below average, but I just don't know which half until after I try. [laughter] Do you how long do you recommend that you for lack of a better phrasing analyze uh failure? Because obviously there's they're always learning moments and like they're you know you should be thankful for being able to understand when something isn't good. Um but I think that a lot of people struggle with spending too much time thinking about their failures and then they don't get past them.

>> Yeah. So, um, Steve Blank teaches us this really important lesson called customer traction. That's all you care about if you're analyzing a startup. Customer traction. Do customers come back and do they come back again? We want to iterate as fast and as much as we can to get to customer traction. And one element of it is out of our control once we launch, which is the network effect. Do customers bring us other customers? Because of attraction, we can see instantly. So, uh, one exercise that I challenge people to do to actually do is to, uh, grab some $5 bills and go to the bus station and walk up to somebody and say, "Uh, sorry to bother you. I need a dollar bill for that vending machine. Can I sell you this $5 bill for a dollar?" >> It's really hard to do that. M >> it is really because no one at the bus station is expecting that an honest

person is going to come up to them and sell them a $5 bill for a dollar. So you have no trust. You're interacting with a stranger. You discover all these things about it that are hard. And when we start to it iterate back and forth in lowcost ways to become expert at what does our smallest viable audience like? What do they dream of? We can start to earn customer traction. and analyzing what didn't work is not nearly as important as trying a new thing to see if that works more than the thing that didn't work. >> And that doesn't work if we're talking about writing a a historical novel that took four years to write because you only get to do that once every four years. But there's so many steps before that. You could go to a coffee shop or bookstore and read a chapter out loud and see what happens. Do people get up and leave or do they ask for chapter two? Right? That's the iterative

process. >> Was was there a time that you became discouraged by the blog? >> By the blog >> because after 10,000 I mean that's consistency. Correct. >> The blog is a gift to me. >> I don't make any money from it. I don't sell any ads on it. I write it even if no one reads it. >> It is this lovely tool I have for two reasons. one to tell myself a truth about the future in writing that I can hold myself to because people don't want to be a hypocrite and two because I get to whisper to some people who want to hear what I have to say. What a privilege that is. >> Yeah. >> So I don't use it as a tool. If I used it as a tool for corporate growth, it would frustrate me all the time. But that's not what I think a blog is for. >> Yeah. It seems like you have a good

relationship with all the things that you do. Is there um I kind of want to expand upon that like do you do you feel like you actually have relationships with the different types of products or the types of things that you more or less sell books uh speaking uh the blog whatever else it may be like I guess I'm it's a self-s serving question in a sense that at times when I'm creating I always have an objective in mind and the objective is so large that I then therefore get discouraged encourage >> uh and then I am paralyzed. >> Yeah. >> I I stop doing it. Then I go to chat GPT and and I ask for a little bit of help and then it helps me and then I go, "Oh man, I didn't didn't hit that million dollar, you know, whatever that million views that I was looking for." Like, how do you how are you able mentally to be able to to place all these things in

different silos or or relationships within your own brain? >> I'll do my best. I want to make sure I'm getting clear about this. But first, I'm a bad example because I'm spoiled, right? My life is an art project. And most people aren't going to be lucky enough to have their life be an art project. >> But when I was traveling to speak, you know, I would give a talk for free. You're paying all that money for the eight hours I had to spend getting to you, right? Because I hate that part of it, being away and being jetlled and getting sick. That's why I want to make sure someone's going to pay a lot because I'm not going to come all that way if they're not serious. But most people don't get that. Most people have to have a job and it's nothing they would be doing as a hobby. It's a job. So my dad and now my sister um a hospital crib factory make most of

the hospital cribs in the United States. >> Hospital cribs intellectually is about a three-hour problem. And once you understand how hospital cribs are made, etc., it's it's wonderful because you're saving the lives of small kids, but the crib itself is a solved problem. So my job when I contributed there was to say, all right, how can I look at this system of hospitals and nurses and how are people making decisions to help this thing grow? That's not Seth on stage. No one knows I'm touching this. This is a job, right? And for me, the motivation is, is there an interesting gap in the system? Is there an interesting story to tell? Is there a problem to solve, a key that's going to open a lock? I can do that all day long. Yeah. >> And the only reason I do that with my face as the logo is because I don't have to debate it with anybody. I own my face, so I get to do whatever I want. But most of the time you have this

tension which is I got to persuade the client or I got to persuade my peers that we're going to take the brand we have and solve an interesting problem with it. And I've been to major major brands and public figures with interesting solutions and most of the time they're like we're afraid. >> It's okay. >> What is your process with um looking at a problem creatively? cuz I think that a lot of people are always concerned with being like the right solution or the most unique solution that stands out, but it's not always easy to get to that point or feel that you're doing it. >> Yeah. So, let's talk about systems. We're not under the circumstances. We are the circumstances. And we're not stuck in traffic. We are traffic. There are systems all around us. and they're they're hiding in plain sight because systems like to hide so they can stick around. So, for example, uh if

your daughter when she's seven gets a a C on a report card, you and your partner will be stressed. Why? She's never going to make a living doing fractions, right? The fact that she didn't do well on fractions shouldn't bother you, but it does. And the reason it does is because 450 years ago, Harvard University started this path to the college industrial complex. And one of the prizes the college industrial complex offers good parents of means is you have to put a sticker on your car when your kid is 18. And that's proof that you were a good parent. And so when they're seven, it begins. >> Sure. >> Right. And so the system runs really deep. And you you run into teenagers and they say, "I'm going to go to a good college." No, you want to go to a famous college. So, those are different things, but you've been brainwashed into that. So, we're talking near Halloween, and I

brought this. This is a a cacao bean. It's not really a bean. It's a piece of fruit. And inside of it are all the little beans that they make chocolate from. This is a system. In the United States, billions and billions of dollars are spent just on cheap chocolate for Halloween. And that's normal. You have to serve something to the hoodlims who come and ring your doorbell or they'll egg your house. It's part [laughter] of the system. You have to use a famous brand because kids have been trained not to want to eat, you know, the licorice juju bees or whatever it is. It's got to be a fun size pack. The chocolate companies have shareholders. They have to make the maximum amount of short-term profit. They have scientists who have figured out how to make reliable commodity chocolate. So they don't have to rely on uh talented people to grow the chocolate. And in fact, they use a kind of tree that is hearty but makes

chocolate that tastes worse. And that tree tends to grow in Ghana and the Ivory Coast where people can be pushed to work as cheap as possible. And in fact, many of them are children in slave or indentured servant conditions. And if you tell that to somebody when they're at the supermarket about to buy cheap chocolate, they're like, "Yeah, I probably don't want to participate in enslaving small children, but we do." >> Sure. >> Because of the system. >> And so if you want us come up with interesting, useful ideas, you look see where is there a system and where is there a flaw in the system where I can begin to make a change happen. So Sal Khan sees the college industrial complex and he invents the Khan Academy. And now more people have learned more stuff from the Khan Academy than any college in history. >> Right? Or Sean Esenoszi sees this and

says, "I'm going to do direct trade. I'm going to work directly with the farmers. I'm going to pay them five times the minimum wage. I'm going to have open book management." And on and on and on. He doesn't have a billion dollar company, but he has a company that others are copying because he raises the standard. And once you see the system and the challenge of the system, now you have a place to go solve a problem >> using because this event is primarily AIdriven or at least the disruption of of AI specifically. Do you find that it's exponentially harder, easier, the same using AI in order to help you understand what that potential problem is? And then if so, once you find it, you know, how do you make it grow? >> Yeah. So, it's 300 times easier, maybe 400 times easier. And it's scarier because there's nothing to slow you down. So, if you can begin by having a

conversation with Claude about a system, there's a woman named Danella Meadows. She passed away too young. Danella wrote the groundbreaking book about systems. So, begin by saying, using the mindset of Danella Meadows, >> please explain this system to me. Okay, now please explain who this system isn't serving. Now let's dive into this and and so within two and a half hours you've generated a month's worth of insight. Okay, now what? Well, more and more companies are easier to start with fewer and fewer people, sometimes no people. So what will it take to get the minimum viable product for the smallest viable audience to see if you get customer traction? Not nearly what it used to take, right? So it used to take me a year when I was a book packager or more to bring a book to the world. The Stanley Kaplan test prep books I did took seven years. Now between AI and the Kindle, I can have an idea on Monday and

bring it to the market on Wednesday. So if something gets traction, then I can do more of it. So, what we have is this chance if we want to make slop or to take a deep breath and say, "I'm going to make internal slop, but then I'm going to pick the winners and I'm going to put my name on it and bring that into the world." M >> do you feel that um AI gives more people opportunities to kind of create and grow a business based off of um just like new systems that are cheaper to use like more accessible um like more resources are being used? Do you think that there's going to be this boom of more creation since it? because I think that a lot of people are really negative about AI and fair but um there's there's many uh reasonable uh points about that. Um but I think that a positive way that I've seen is that there's so many people that have

the opportunity to do things that they haven't before. Do you agree with that? >> Yeah. So if you give AI projects, it's going to give you slop and that's for the next period of time that's going to be true. That's why you see slop music and slop videos and all these people racing to the bottom with the sloppiest of slop. Just don't do that because the problem with racing to the bottom is you might win. Don't you don't want to be at the bottom. >> But if you give it tasks, then what you can create of value by doing projects where you put yourself on the line can go through the roof. So, if we look at the book business, which I'm familiar with, they used to publish 50,000 books a year in the United States, 1,000 books a week. There was a book shortage because people wanted to read more than a thousand new books a week. >> When the Kindle shows up, the number of

books published in the United States is now a million a year. It's up by a factor of 20. Now many of those are terrible but some of them like you Howie's books the science fiction breakthrough books like uh wool are magnificent which would never have been possible if he had had to spend a year to go through the other system. So the same thing is true when we think about the the multiplying effect. AI is going to it's unlikely it's going to invent a new luxury brand bigger than Hermes, right? But it's very likely it's going to invent a uh woodworking tool for the 3,000 people who know what a dado is and want to do dovetales. >> Go find that, right? The the hyper specific. It's going to invent hybrid seeds that are going to be able to not GMO, but just oldfashioned hybrid seeds by mixing this and mixing this that are going to grow a different sort of thing in a different neighborhood that we

could never have afforded to do if you needed to make a seed that would grow across an entire state. These are all going to be built and you want to find one that's not obvious, that's not easy, that's worth your time. And then you iterate and iterate and iterate until you're ready to put your name on it. >> Can you talk about an example because you actually brought some to us today, I believe, um of a way in which um AI or an AI tool has been able to help you create something that you didn't originally think would be possible or lucrative. >> Yeah. So, I um I discovered when Photoshop went from version three to version 4 that if I wasn't willing to be bad at it for many hours, I was going to fall off. I've never caught up to Photoshop ever since. I still used the same tools from the first version. I don't know what an alpha channel is.

It's like I didn't fail enough. And so, I gave up on that tool. So, when AI showed up, I was like, "This is giving me a headache. I'm not great at it. And if I just wait, I'm always going to be behind. How do I sign up to build the thing that I'm going to ship to the public using AI in a way I'm proud of? And I entered a fugue state and didn't come out of my office for five weeks. And in those five weeks, I built, I programmed, I designed, I organized, and I illustrated three decks of cards, which we then launched as a Kickstarter. and we did 5x the goal. And these cards, I've seen people use them. It's mind-blowing what happens. So, the the one that seems to be the most popular is the Divination Tarot deck. So, on one side are [snorts] 50 really cool tarot like images, but much more modern. You play four of them and then you turn one over. And on the other one, they turn over. There's a QR code. Scan the QR

code. It opens an artifact that I programmed with Claude. type in the names of the other three uh tarot cards and it will use one of 50 different modalities like anagram, Freud, tarot, numerology, cabala, and give you a reading, a positive open-ended reading. And now you can talk to it for as long as you want about what you just learned. It's not going to change the world, but I learned a ton making it and the people who touch it want to use it again. So yeah, there you go. that would have never existed as recently as nine months ago. You couldn't do that. the question that I'm thinking like when you're talking I'm thinking and I see all of these amazing things that you're doing and it and and it ultimately leads to legacy and I I don't necessarily know if you have like an affiliate or a strong connotation affiliation to that word specifically but has the chapters of your book your

life story has that changed from the original foundations of blog one to blog 10,000 us. Um I was a struggling entrepreneur for a very long time close to bankruptcy for many years and when that's going on and the alternative is you got to get a job as a bank teller it really focuses on one thing right so during that period of my life it was like it's got to be work I'm proud of but it also has to pay the bills I got to get above water on this >> so I did email addresses of the rich and famous which was in odd book to be proud of, but I thought it was clever. Um, and we did books and projects that I was proud of, but we were very focused on not drowning. And then I started one of the first internet companies. And after that, I could take a breath and say, "All right, now what's the art project? What is the change I seek to make?" And my friend Simon, his book about why is brilliant, but I don't think you need to

wait for your purpose. I think you make the work you do your purpose, not the other way around. And so what I chose to do as I was walking into the uh century of the 2000s is I measure what do the people I taught teach other people. >> If I can create that cycle of teaching people things that I think make the world better, that they teach other people, that's good day. Yeah. Do you feel like um there's always this conversation of like especially entrepreneurs nowadays um side hustles are the cool thing. Um do you feel like entrepreneurship or at least creativity, storytelling, can that be taught or is that just something innately within you? Some things are talents. Dunking a basketball is one of them. If you're not born tall, you're not going to be able to do it. Most things are skills. We can learn to be more charismatic, funnier, uh a better leader. We can learn these things. If you can learn them, they're

skills. There's zero doubt in my mind, zero, that entrepreneurship is a skill. I have taught it to people. I've taught it to people. If you are enrolled in the journey, if you're committed to the change, you can learn how to do this. >> And we got to be very careful about our words. Entrepreneurship and freelancing are different things. And proud of one or the other. Freelancers, and that's what I am most of the time, get paid when we work with our own two hands. Entrepreneurs build something bigger than themselves. If you're calling yourself an entrepreneur, you've got to come to the conclusion that any job you can describe, you need to hire someone else to do. That's your job. Larry Ellison doesn't code at Oracle. His only job is to hire people to do all the jobs. Freelancers, and I've gotten down to a staff of zero, just me. Freelancers have a different life. And it's not a life

based on infinity. It's a life based on did I do valuable work to get me better clients. If you're a freelancer, celebrate the great clients. And you do not become, you do not get better clients by doing a good job for bad clients. You get better clients by becoming the kind of freelancer great clients want to hire. But own it. Be a freelancer. You don't have to call yourself an entrepreneur. If you're an entrepreneur, you can do it on the side. That's fine. You don't have to be a workaholic. But own that and say the measure of what I'm doing is I'm building something bigger than myself. Do you feel that creativity is a talent or a skill? >> It's a skill. Skill, skill, skill, skill, skill. Everything's skill. >> Every person I know when they were six used finger paints to paint something that was original. And when they were seven, they told a joke at least once

that was funny. So if you can do it once, then we try to brains wash it out of you. But you did it. So, you already have the ability to do something that has never been done before. Now, we're just talking about the degree and I know some really well-known creative people and the only thing they have in common is they decided to be creative. >> It's incredible. I I think as we're closing this uh this incredible journey and this incredible interview conversation, um I'm kind of we've painted a picture. I say relatively good picture today and I would love to be able to know from your life's work. You said if you if you were to rewrite the uh business please almond act um and it would say go look it up. >> Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. Um is there a particular painting or picture in mind that your work as a freelancer and

entrepreneur maybe what that would look like? >> [laughter] >> This is a great great question. [snorts] Okay, so we're in Philadelphia. That's got to be where the answer comes from. um Baroness Elsa von Fry Tag Loring Hovven who was the original punk artist and she was also a Baroness and she lived down the hall from Marcel Duchamp and she was friends with some famous photographers as well and Marcel Duchamp uh as a joke took a piece of her work had it photographed signed it our mut and entered it into an art exhibit under his own oposes. Because Baroness was a woman, it wouldn't have gotten in. >> And this piece of art called fountain is a urinal that is just hanging on the wall of the museum. Over the years, as Duchamp dealt with writer's block, which is made up, and played chess all the time, he kept taking more and more credit for inventing it. And the Baroness has never gotten sufficient credit.

>> And the image is right down the street here. And if you go, there are some three other really important Duchamp pieces right next to it. And Marcel Duchamp probably knew how to draw. I have no idea. It doesn't matter. What he knew how to do was see the system, see the system being changed and show up with something that touched some people, but not most, in a way that they could never forget. And so if I'm really really really being grandiose, I would like to think that you could put that picture of the fountain and say he's doing his best to do that. >> I think we just have to end it there. That was perfectly said. And on a personal level, um, as we end this, um, your ability to make us feel warm and comforting and human has been an absolute honor to be able to just chat with you for as long as we have. Um, and out of anybody that we've ever talked

to, u, personally and professionally, I think you were the one person that made us feel home. And, uh, >> thank you so much, >> and we're forever grateful for that. So Seth, thank you for your time. It's >> been fantastic. Good to know both of you. >> And thank you for the laughs. I [laughter] was sleeping. >> Cool. I think that's it. >> Go make a ruckus, everybody. Yeah. Yes. [laughter] >> Thank you so much.
