On the show today, we have an incredible guest. I want to welcome Benino Veter. He is the chief media officer and digital commerce officer at Liquid Death and he is the best person I have ever met when it comes to talking about advertising and how you use advertising to generate real revenue. He's built a fullfunnel media system. He has unique creative equations that fuel that systems and he has a real methodical process for how creative and messaging maps to that system. and we're going to break down all of those for you on today's show. And he told me something that there is a certain metric that if you as a marketer follow it, you are destined to fail. And the reality is most marketers follow that metric. And so we're going to tell you what that metric is. We're going to tell you how to avoid failure and how to think about your marketing spend in completely new and actionable ways. Benwa, we are so excited to have you on the show today. [music] So Benwis, I think the story of liquid death in marketing circles has been told a ton and people know the skull. They know kind of the origin story of Mike and how that all came to be. I think there's an untold story around liquid death that's way more important that no one knows or understands and that's the fact that you actually have figured out how to build remarkable systems and creative to actually drive sales. It's not just like you didn't sell all these products because you're cool. Obviously being cool helped, but you have to do real marketing over and over again to actually penetrate such a crowded market like you're in. And so maybe just to kick us off, give us your origin story, like how the heck did you get to Liquid Death? What was like the first thing you worked on? And then from there, I want to go into kind of the systems and everything that we're going to cover on the show today. So yeah, you're completely right. We've been talking over and over about our amazing creative machine at Liquid Death, but we've built a lot from that angle all the way down to cell. So from my origin story and how I got to liquidate it's actually a very I would say nonlinear way to get there. I'm not >> exactly I'm not a CPG guys. I'm a founder. I'm a startup guy. I built a lot of ATT tech platforms over the years because I always from a media standpoint never had really what I wanted to buy media properly and to buy actually media the way I want which we're going to talk about going from awareness all the way down to conversion. And so the last platform that I built was a rebate redemption platform for measurement. Meaning I wanted to measure the impact of creators on social in retail sales, brick and mortar retail sales. >> That's cool. >> So I built an attribution platform which at the same time got me in front of liquid death in the very early days before actually even the water was in the can with Mike Cesar co founder. And then from there we went from doing this to hey you need to come in full-time to run the show when it comes to media and acquisition. And that's how I joined as a as a chief MIA officer a little bit over two years ago now. First of all, I think that's just such a cool story around like creating situation just because you were out building trying to solve a problem you had experienced firsthand. You knew a bunch of other brands were experiencing people by the way still re really experiencing that problem. But I imagine you took all of what you learned, you brought that into liquid death and that was probably the foundation of the early systems because I think when it comes to liquid death, people talk about the creative, the design, the aesthetic. >> They don't talk about the distribution. Uh, and to me like one of my mantras in life is distribution is undefeated. Like you have to figure out distribution at a reasonable cost that works for your business or you don't have a business. And it seems like to me like that's at the the core DNA of who you are is you're trying to figure out distribution and build systems for distribution. So you come into Liquid Death, you kind of have this background like how do you get started? How like how do you actually figure out what media to buy? How do you figure out if it's working or not? These are questions that everybody watching this is struggling with. And so I want to like hear how it started and kind of how it's evolved to where it is now. For me, first order of business was to understand where the money was spent and at what stage of the funnel. So I came in with my full funnel approach from day one. And now I started to categorize of that span. So first I understand where we spend, how we spend, at what stage of the funnel. Categorize the whole thing. Now you start understanding, hey, we may spend too much on one stage, not enough on the other stage. Now in parallel I had to also understand if it was working or not right. So measurement was another thing. Obviously the first measurement that you have access to is measurement on platform like on the Amazon platform on meta you name it. It's not perfect but it's is a signal. And by the way that's been always my mantra in what I work with. I don't need perfect I need signals. Yes. >> Right. You search for perfection. This is important I think because if you look for the right metric the right confidence level you will never get it or it's going to take forever to get it and by the time you get it it's over right so signals strength of signals is what matter and I was looking for that for now that I categorize my media mix what is working what is not working first I got in the platform and understanding and a lot of people in media pay attention to roas right because you want especially in the early days you want to understand if when you spend money, do you get money in return? If I spend $1, do I make $3 or two or 50 cents, right? And people start making decisions on that. This is a a big issue if you do that. Here is why. Yes, you want money return on your investment. But the other metrics that you need to pay attention to because I can as a media buyer drive very high return, but those high returns are actually fake. What I mean by that is they are not incremental. That means that the platform will tell you meta will tell you you spend $1, you made three. The problem is those $3 that you made that ma says they were driving because someone clicked on an ad or view an ad would have happened without the ad as well. So you need to understand the incrementality of your spend. Now this is a big word in media incrementality and there's a lot of people talking about it and there's a lot of platform being built. For me, the best signal of incrementality is I'm acquiring new people to the brand, right? So, the new to brand metric was very important as I was categorizing the efficiency of my media because I couldn't run incremental tests on previous data. It was going to take me months, an MM of two years, those kind of things that big brands do that will never get me where I need to be within the next couple weeks. So when I start mapping rorowass with YouTube brand I understand if the rorowass is high and the percentage of new brand is high that means that it is probably very incremental. So now I can just triage my spend based on that filter. Now after that as I start I understand where I spend I understand the mix by funnel stage and I understand do I have some kind of incrementality or not. So that was the that was the beginning that that was the beginning. There's two key lessons there for anybody watching in what you just said. The first is you wanted to move spend fullfunnel and you needed you wanted to audit spend and make sure the spend was full funnel. When people think about brand dollars or creative dollars, >> most consumer companies are just at the top of the funnel. Most B2B companies are just at the bottom of the funnel and very few are very fullfunnel. So that's I think having a fullfunnel media approach is something any company regardless of how small or big you are can do. The second thing that I think is even more important is what when you talked about the ROAZ plus new customers. We covered a lot on today's show. You probably have some questions. We are giving you free additional resources to answer any of those. You can scan that QR code or click the link in the description below and go get everything you need. I've got a book coming out in September called Loop. One of the core points in that book is this idea of creative equations that the marketers that win measure their marketing very differently and measure it very creatively. And if you just measure the easiest thing to measure, one, it's probably wrong like rorowaz. And two, it's highly competitive. It's highly saturated. Everybody's doing stuff around the easiest stuff to measure, which means you're paying way more for it than you should. And so you gave us one creative equation. Are there other like creative equations that you've used over the years that you felt like really unlocked growth for the brand and unlocked sales? Yeah, I mean that's the one that actually I'm paying a lot of attention on right now which is the true incrementality and there is a lot especially in those days and probably a lot of listeners have heard a lot of for example Tik Tok shop or like social let's call it social commerce and I'm very curious about the impact of social commerce on true sales and you can see that maybe from social commerce that for me is mostly a discovery tool more than it is a scalable tool what is the impact on the scalable sales, retail sales, let's say on Amazon.com, on walmart.com, on target.com. We are, by the way, a brand that doesn't sell D2C, right? We don't sell directly to customer on our website. So that's why I'm not talking about it. We only sell on retailer website. But what I'm paying a lot of attention and talking about this, you know, equation, I'm looking at what I call now incremental rorowass. Yes. >> Right. And so that means that this incremental rise, and this is where it gets a little bit more technical and you need models and platforms but there's a school of thought right now where we can get that data pretty quickly because models move or better yes >> and I can understand if my incrementality is true or not and so the incrementality and maybe to try to simplify >> for the audience is >> I look at a region two regions right like let's say LA and New York and let's say they are very similar in terms of shoppers for me I'm going to spend spend money in New York and not spend money in LA. And I'm going to see if my sales go up in New York and don't go up in in LA. And if it does, that means that what I did in New York works because if I didn't do it in LA and it did and it didn't move, then that means that yes, it worked. So that's a very simple if people are very deep in incrementality on the audience, they'll say, "What is he talking about?" [laughter] But this is kind of the fundamentals, right? Yeah. Is there incrementality in sales with the media that you spend? So that's something that I pay a lot of attention that I'm trying to actually simplify because out there there's a lot of complexity around that a lot of takes forever to do how can we shorten the cycle to test how can we get the data fast but I'm looking at the incrementality that goes beyond what we talk about YouTube brand and roass like true incrementality. Yeah. So I think you're making a couple points here that are really important. one that like innovations in data science and AI is making the ability to do these tests easier and faster and which is really changing advertising and media buying at its heart. The second thing you're basically saying is there's lots of different ways something can be incremental, right? And you can look at incremental one channel versus the other, one region versus the other. The actual important part is actually setting up the experiment and having a thesis to know what am I actually trying to figure out. And even if you have thousands of dollars, you still can do small incrementality experiments to unlock insights. Right. >> Correct. Correct. And and and I think that goes along with the other thing that I do a lot which is testing. I test all the time not just for incrementality >> but for any metrics that matters, right? So for example, another one that is very important for me in the consideration stage which is the midfunnel meaning people discover your product and are intrigued and want to try the product. For me it's the efficiency of driving from someone that see your ad to go to your PDP right your product page on the retailer right on the.com. And this efficiency can be measured by clickthrough rate. Yeah, >> but clickthrough rate can be misleading and maybe I'm going to go into too much details, but I think it's important for we want all the details, >> right? So, clickthrough rate is important, but if you have a good click-through rate on a high CPM, it still drives a pretty expensive cost per click, which leads to a pretty expensive cost to get someone to your product page view. So, clickthrough rate is not the only metric. It's clickthrough rate plus CPM which gets you to your cost per click. Now there is even more than that is cost per click usually is correlated with the cost to get people to go to the product page view >> because if you click usually you land on the product page view but in the current world especially when you're on social or any platforms >> you have some kind of a loop happening. There's a popup window that says you're leaving the site. There's a lot of that could happen that you don't necessarily aware that will get people to click but don't land on your product page view. So you need to measure that as well. So that's why I look at the cost per product page view and that I test a lot to get to the most efficient metric here. And that's takes a lot because again the levers there are a lot of different levers. So I my lever is the clickthrough rate. I need to test my clickthrough rate. My liver is the CPM because also if I have a high clickthrough rate on the low CPM now I'm golden and I need to also measure if there's any kind of drop off from the click to the product page right so I spend a lot of time testing all those different levers and when you test those levers are you getting small gains big gains like how do you know what tests to run and and if they're really all these tests are worth it I'm only looking at big gains yes I love this I'm only looking for home runs. We are a brand that is in hyper growth mode. I'm not looking for 5% gain. I'm looking for doubledigit gains and I'm looking for even more than 20% gain every time. That's why I need signal. I don't need precised uh results because if you are at a point like hey I may get 5% but I need more clicks to understand if it's true. I don't care if it's 5%. Let's move on. Right? Because 5% is not helping me. Now, if you have a 30% gain, you don't need a lot of data to get to 30% gain. You will get that very quickly. It's either working or it's not. Yes. >> So, I'm only going for the home run, not for a single or a double. Sorry for people that don't follow baseball, but I'm I'm going I'm swinging for the fences every single time. So I have this framework that I always use that's it's basically a 2 by two and one axis is predictability and one axis is axis is magnitude and too often marketers get trapped in the highly predictable low magnitude quadrant of that where it's like I'm going to I know this works. I can predict it so I'm just going to try to get a couple points better. You're basically here telling us that is the completely wrong way to think about it. You want to be I mean you want to be in the highest magnitude quadrant possible. You could care less about predictability in the short term. Yes, you want it to be predictable longer term, but what you actually care about is can I maximize my upside? >> Correct. It's maximize the upside big swing because if I will have time to think about the singledigit growth when we are massive, right? So if you are if you're a multibillion dollar company that has been around for 50 years that the only goal is not to grow but to not lose market share then yes that's probably what you do. You're looking for those singledigit growth. We are not that. And I assume most of the people listening that no >> podcast are not that. >> No, everybody watching is here founders, they're marketers, they're in hyperrowth mode. And I think you gave us the right lens of focus is that you only need you only want to run tests that are really high upside tests. And the benefit of those is not only growth, but you get to clarity of results much faster. >> You get to statistical significance much faster. So it's this double whammy of growth and a learning loop that runs much faster. And that's if you run a test and you're like four days in the test and the data is still not conclusive that means that it will it's it the the the outcome will never be big. So just move on. >> Correct. Okay. So we talked a little bit about I think like the math and equations and testing side of your media machine. Give us your take on how you think about channels. Here's my rough overview. the average marketer, they get bombarded with media salespeople and they kind of listen to some of those salespeople and then they do the obvious things like Facebook and Google. But how do you think about where you want to play when you're spending money and trying to build a brand that actually is going to drive sales? When I look at platform, for me it depends on again what stage I'm at and what I'm going to leverage it for. For example, let's start with the upper funnel, right? So awareness what I look for a platform that gives me awareness is ability to have eye frequency. If I cannot drive high frequency awareness won't work. You won't get aware of a new product of a new brand unless you get in front of someone several times per week. If the platform dictates the frequency without letting you play with it, you are in trouble. Perfect example, Meta. Meta won't let you dictate your frequency. How can you do awareness without frequency, especially in a meta environment, a Facebook or Instagram environment where you're bombarded with content? So, if you are showing up only once a week, which is most of the algo dads, one to 1.5 times a week, and you're in the middle of a thousand pieces of content, nobody will remember you, right? So, in my opinion, social is not for awareness, period. But CTV, radio, podcasts, all those channels are really good for awareness, right? And and there are a lot of different reason. Now, if I look for consideration, now it's different. I look for someone that is going to let me optimize against what I said before, against a click out. >> Yes. >> And I need to be as close as I can to conversion because this is the next step. So an example there meta may be good for that right because now I can have the algo optimized against a click no problem. I can do retargeting which is even amplifying your your chance to click out. Now obviously also for me the platforms that I love are the platform where people convert which is amazon.com Walmart.com those places are great. So now I need to have those platforms work because now there I can get people to consider the product but also convert. So for me it's really looking at what is the platform good at based on what I need. Do I need conversion? Do I need awareness? And if I need any of those, what are the levers that I need to control? If they don't let me control, then I won't touch it. That is one of the best single breakdowns of how to think about where to play in advertising that I think I've ever heard because you rooted it in the outcomes and the goals you're trying to achieve as a marketer. >> I think so many marketers are just like, "Oh, all my customers on Instagram. I'm just going to just spend some money there, right?" And that is like the complete wrong way to think about it. It's like you can reach your customers thousands of different ways. What are the best couple ways for the goals that you have and for the stage of the process? Because we're here talking about how you actually use media to drive revenue, which means you have to move people through the process, which inherently means you need different types of media formats and different types of creative to actually make that happen. And it strikes me that you all have actually built a really strong system with the type type of equations we went over the type of strategy around how we built our media buying. So the third part of that to me is like the creative and the messaging that fits inside those. And it's really hard and I think it's something that I as a CMO have struggled with a ton over the years because it's like oh my CEO has an idea, my brand leader like you know five different people have an idea and I'm like I don't know what the right message is. Like how do you figure that out? >> Yeah. Everybody wants to be a marketer no matter what. CFO wants to be a marketer >> until they have to run the website and all the terrible stuff that comes with being a marketer. >> Exactly. Well, again, I think it's very similar to the the answer that I gave around what platform I use. It's the same for the creatives. It's I think each stage of the funnel has its own creative. So if I go back to each stage of the funnel from an awareness standpoint, the creative has to be about remembering the brand, not remembering that he has zero sugar, not remembering that it's available at that very specific retailer. It's to remember that we are liquid death and we are a healthy beverage company. And even if I have to do that, remembering that we are a beverage and we're called liquid death. So that's where also from a creative standpoint, you cannot have everything in a single creative from who you are, how much you cost, what are the RTBs, like you cannot just plug it into all. You need to have one focus. So when I'm thinking about what I'm going to run on CTV, I'm thinking about something that is going to capture your attention and remember our name. So for us, we picked our lane, which is comedy. Not an easy lane, but this is our lane. >> Hard lane. >> Exactly. So trying to be funny and as we are funny people will remember and we do that through I think very creative campaign around people that like that was crazy that was fun and now I remember the name I remember that beverage company that does some crazy ads. Now from there now that you remember me because the creative is strong from a remembering standpoint and I go with high frequency. So now people really remember. Now next time they see me, which is most likely for me on social or at the retailer, I need to basically link the brand name with the benefits of the product. So now I'm getting into completely different type of creatives. The creatives are not anymore about remembering my brand. Now it's about telling them why the product is healthy, why the product is affordable, where to find it. So now they can consider it and they at that point they can click it. But if I try to turn a crazy creative funny into also telling them why the product is good and where they can buy it, it's not going to happen, right? It's not possible. But if I do those two, if they click on that and they land, but they probably won't buy right away now, I need to follow them through a lot of different tactics and retargeting tactics. Now, what do I say when I retarget them? Well, I probably not say the exact same thing I told them the first time around. Why they click? Because if they click and they didn't convert, why they didn't convert? So maybe now you start touching on very unique points. So you get even more precise on what you touch. Now the next step is which we do a lot is people bought once but didn't repeat yet. So how do you target people that are lapsed, right? And so at that point it's again a different messaging. And so you see how I categorize my type of creatives based again on the goal that I have. >> And again for each one of them now I start doing a lot of different testing to see what really drives what I need. Yeah, it really is just it's a it's a grid of where the where the customer is in the journey, what the channels they're on, and what the messaging they need per channel, per stage of their journey to kind of help move them along and move them to the next. And I think most of the marketers I talk to think about this creative and media placement so much in isolation. And they think about it as a campaign versus a system. Oh, I have this thing I want the world to know. I'm going to go run this big campaign versus no, I kind of know what I my place in the world. I just need more people to believe it and I got to build a system and march after that day after day, month after month to get more and more people to know that. >> Correct. Like you you cannot have a campaign that has everything. Like I keep saying that and that's I think a big problem that I will blame for that is making you believe that you can do the full funnel in a single ad unit. >> No. And then there's all those people that are trying to sound cool by saying, "Yeah, the funnel has collapsed. The funnel is shorter." Like the funnel will always exist. You need to start getting aware of the brand. You need to consider the brand and you need to buy the brand. Now, can you make that happen maybe faster? Maybe for some people, but you still have some people are going to take a long time to go through those steps. So you need to basically split those tests, those steps, sorry, so you can really get the right platform and the right creative to go through those stages. And I think what's interesting about what you just walked us through is that I think when a lot of people think of cool brand, liquid death or something similar, I think they imagine like glamorous video shoots and like long lengthy campaigns. What you just described is actually just very tedious and very thoughtful. And it's it's the collision point of data and taste and understanding your customer and what moves them. And yeah, there's some cool shoots, but that's like a small part of what actually it takes to sell something. And I think the average founder out there, especially listening, probably doesn't understand that right now. No, I agree. And I and I think for the for also the early stage, it's it's something very important I think I need to share here. What you say is correct. You need to this very tedious and understanding. And yes, there is the cool glamour photo like video shoot with like celebrities and stuff that is happening and and and and it's important but you need to have everything else. Now what I would say for early stage founder because I run into this issue over and over and over and liquid death didn't run into that issue because of the type of marketers that are liquid death is if you chase conversion from day one you're going to fail. >> Yes. >> Right. So if your only metric is CAC LTV ratio, you are going to fail. >> Here's why. >> Because you have for your product, for your brand, always what I call the golden core. You're always going to have a certain amount of people that are going to convert pretty fast on your product because they all those type of people that will engage fast, will want to test fast, and are going to go in. Now this golden quartz has a certain size a million dollar of revenue, $3 million revenue, $500,000 revenue. As you get out of this, there's no more scale. People at that point, your CAC is going to start rising. You're going to go your CAC to LTV ratio is going to go upside down. And now you're starting to say, "What am I doing? Oh, the meta algorithm is not working anymore." No, no, no. It's because the true people outside of this golden core are need a full funnel. Yes. >> And so what we did at Liquid Death that because of the type of creative people we had is from the very beginning we work with awareness. We worked the awareness campaigns to know the brand. It was a lot of virality on social. It was a lot of what we talk about things that you will remember not about the benefits of the product but about the brand. And that's a very uncomfortable thing to do because you cannot measure the dollar impact on this. But if you don't do that, you don't feed the top of the funnel. If you don't feed the top of the funnel, you have nobody to convert at the bottom, right? So I would say do that. I love the show Land Man. I don't know if you've watched Land Man. Taylor Sharon. >> I love it. It's great. Like it's some of the best writing and directing out there. It's it's it's fantastic. But it reminds you, you're basically saying it's like, hey, I've got this oil well and I'm trying to extract all the oil possible from this well and at some point the well is going to run dry, right? And like that's going to be a fundamental problem and you can't do it. You feel like investing money on LTV to CAC and highly highly converting media >> is a good way to not waste money. And the reality is it's counterintuitively false, right? >> It's actually you are wasting money because you would get a lot of that revenue anyway. And then you're afraid if you go spend awareness consideration dollars that you're wasting money. And the reality is that's actually how you're building a base and driving money. And it's it's a really important paradox in marketing that I think most people don't understand. Yeah. And that's why I'm trying to say that to especially in the early stage, right? When you are very tight with cash and you have to be careful on how you spend and you have investors on your back telling you, "Oh, what was your ro? What was your CAC?" Right? that's going to lead to trouble very very fast. And so I know it's uncomfortable, but pick your lane. Don't start with an ad on Meta that just tells buy my product because it's good. Start with ads that will get people to remember you. >> And this is a good reminder that investors are good investors. They're not good marketers. >> Exactly. And they're the ones that believe are good marketers and are going to give you all their ideas. As we're closing out here, Benwal, one of the things I I want to know is you today, if you had a time machine and could go tell tell yourself when you first started at Liquid Death, like what would be the couple of things you're like, you should just know this now. It'll save you so much time, pain, it'll help you grow faster. Like what are the core lessons learned? >> Retail and I think I'll preface it's for CPG guys, right? We are CPG. So what I'm going to say doesn't apply necessarily to nonCPG folks, but retail media is key for CPG people, right? Don't focus only on your D2C. Focus, not focus only on your Shopify revenue. Focus on what you can drive at Amazon, at Walmart, at Target. And the dollars that you spend there can really turn into massive growth. And so I wish I had paid more attention from day one in retail media and I'm really deep in it, but I wish I had done that before because there is a lot of a lot of impact and a lot of growth there. One of the themes of the show today that's kind of been unspoken that I want to make sure we cover before we we we close out today is a subtext of like marketers needing to give up control and that ad units are very fragmented. They're across all these platforms. Hey, you're going to sell a product like Liquid Death through Amazon, through Target, not through liquid death.com for the most part. And most marketers I know like I need to get the visits to my website. I need people to look at my product pages. I want all the control. What advice do you give to marketers around this topic? Like should they let go of control? How should they evolve? >> Yeah, I think for me is like two things. You have to focus on where you think you can get scale. >> I love that. >> Right. And that goes with the let go of control because again, same thing. You may be misled on where you think the scale is. You go where you have the most control, which is most likely your Shopify website, but this is not necessarily where you get the most scale. And where you get the most scale is mostly where you get the least amount of control. And that's where I think it's very important. Think about can you take it to big revenue through that channel. Now people's like well that's a first step. Yeah that's a first step but if you only think about the first step you may not take the right first step right. So think where you want to go. And so when letting control go that's where I would say that. Now where I would say don't let the control go it's on when you buy media. There's a lot of problems right now with platforms that are trying to plug AI in so they do it all for you right especially for example I will bring that one because that one is driving me crazy is this notion of throw as many creative as you can to meta and the algo will figure it out I don't want meta to decide what creatives to get in front of each person for me I will decide because again for me consistency of creatives matters because what beta sees is just one small fragment of the entire funnel. So if I let beta play around with it, then it's going to completely distract my full funnel. So let control go on where you need to scale and the channels to distribute. Take control over where you buy and how you buy. >> I love that. And because the your incentives and and Meta and all the other platforms incentives are not always the same, right? They're sometimes aligned but not always aligned. So you want control to make sure you're using them in the ways that are aligned. All right. Well, Benwis, you have given us, I think, a master class in how to think about buying and building media systems to drive real revenue and to do that not at the expense of building a brand, but at the acceleration of building a brand, which is actually how you build a big and remarkable company. And I really deeply appreciate everything and thank you so much for being on Marketing. It's the great today. >> Thanks for having me. That was fun. This data is wrong every freaking time. >> Have you heard of HubSpot? >> HubSpot [music] is a CRM platform where everything is fully integrated. >> WA I can see the client's whole history. Calls, support tickets, emails, and here's a task from 3 days ago I totally [music] missed. >> HubSpot. Grow better.