In this video, I want to talk about how you can write vicious hooks, which basically are the best possible types of hooks that you can write. And you'll understand why I'm going to call them vicious in just a second. And we're going to be covering eight different principles that make people stop scrolling. You can kind of see some of those on here. But this is very in the weeds, very, very tactical, and very, very specific. But writing hooks is by far one of the most important skills that you can have when it comes to copywriting, but especially when it comes to creative strategy. Uh, when it comes to the actual writing process, I spend maybe 70 80% of my time focused on the hook because if you can't get someone to open, to see more around the ad, to want to consume the ad, then it's dead on arrival. Okay? And I think most people, uh, again, after coaching and working with hundreds, if not thousands of copywriters and creative strategists at this point, um, it's become clear to me that writing hooks is one of those things that, uh, takes a lot of skill to develop, and it's one thing that people struggle with. So, I'm going to make this video giving you literally all of the sauce, everything that I have um to help you write better and better hooks. Now this idea around a vicious hook actually comes uh from someone who is the former CMO at one of Hormosy's portfolio company and he basically was talking about how uh you know Hormosi and I don't understand the exact details so I may be uh slightly misquing some of it but either in Hormos's uh brand himself or as uh one of the specific uh portfolio brands there was a set of rules for the ads and one of the rules for those ads is that the the ad must be vicious vicious And you know, again, that's sort of anecdotal. Um, I heard it, you know, through the grapevine, but regardless of of the accuracy of it, and I believe it's accurate. That idea is very, very powerful that you want your hooks and you want your ads, but especially your hooks to be vicious. Okay, I really like that word because I think it describes um how how important it is to craft really good hooks and how seriously you have to take it. So, one thing that I found, like I said, after working with hundreds of creative strategists and copywriters, um I found again it's very very powerful to do the hooks and I find that people sort of underestimate just how important they they are. Okay, so we're going to go through and break this down as much as possible. Um, if you want to know a little bit about who I am, my name is Luke Eha. I run a program called Genesis where we have around 400 different marketers including many creative strategists in DTOC brands. Uh we basically build AI tools that help you to do creative strategy and we also give you the coaching and the training to make you world class. Uh I run private mentorship groups. We have some students who are hitting, you know, 30 and $40,000 months. Of course, I cannot claim in any sort of way that you'll even get remotely close to that because that's entirely up to you. But you can see some of the success we've had with students. Uh that's Cosmin, Mrs. Bashier from Uganda making 11K a month. Someone who hit 40k per month. Uh someone here basically talking about uh the role of the creative strategist and getting job offers. people who are winning uh with the bots that we have a record month of $37,000, whatever. And you can pause the video if you want to kind of read these, but I'm just sharing some of these things so you know a little bit about the success that our students uh have had using the same principles that I'm going to share with you in here. Okay. Uh at the same time, I also work as a creative strategist for an eight figureure brand. I'm in a bunch of different masterminds with creative strategists and DDC owners. And I've personally done over $und00 million in sales, uh at least one VSSL doing $100 million. So, I've done well above that with my own copy. My only point in saying this is that I have my finger on the pulse and most importantly I've had to get pretty good at both uh writing hooks myself and teaching hooks. So this is the culmination of many many years that I've been teaching this many many iterations and frameworks and this is pretty much uh the most up-to-date frameworks that I have. Okay, so let's go into what vicious means. So the reason that vicious matters is because most people hedge. So most people when I'm talking to them, even people who are decently successful, they usually start their ad actually three to four sentences in. This means that there's some kind of filler or some kind of intro or something else. And it's almost like I I think the psychology, if I were to dig underneath, is people think that they have this time. They think like they can kind of warm up to it, right? They can they can take their time, dribble the ball, and then and then shoot it, right? They don't think that there's this level of urgency, right? And they have to go right for the kill right away. So there's a there's a lack of almost like savagess or again vicious. There's a lack of viciousness that people are missing and they're too laxidasical when it comes to the hook. The thing that I tell the students who I work with is like you almost want to and I'm using very aggressive metaphors. So understand like not trying to be super aggressive but I think these aggressive metaphors really communicate what I'm trying to uh get across. So the thing that I tell people is like it's almost like you want to go uh you want to like put your foot on the neck. You want to go right for it and not let it up for one second. Like you want to go directly for the kill, right? Right away. You don't want there to be any pause, no hesitation. You need to go directly to the kill and don't let go until that person buys. Like that's the level of intensity that you need because again, we're just in this storm, this masttorm of ideas and and different things that people are exposed to. So if you hedge even a little bit, your ad is dead on arrival. Okay? And most people are not good at this. So, if you can master the skill, you put yourself into a pretty elite class. So, what I say is most people start their ad three to four sentences in. They have this breathing room. They have throat clearing and a bunch of warm-up before they get to the point. But a vicious hook goes right for the gut, right? It's something that sounds unreasonable, something that sounds crazy, something that spikes the emotion, something that feels almost transgressive or dangerous. Okay? You can just pay attention to your own consumption patterns. And honestly, you're probably paying attention to ads or content that leads with something that's kind of crazy, something that strikes fear or sets the emotions on fire. It goes right for the throat and it doesn't stop for a second. It goes right for it in the very first line. And I'm going to keep reiterating this because I've seen it after teaching this many, many times. People still struggle with this. So, understand uh but listen to what I'm saying. I'm very serious. It has to be the absolute first line and it has to be insanely vicious. Okay, this is the hook. So, what does emotionally vicious means? It means it must grab something the reader already feels, a fear, a shame, an unspoken dread, and squeeze it so hard the reader physically cannot scroll past. A polite hook is a dead hook. A comfortable hook is a dead hook. A hook that doesn't make someone flinch, gasp, or pre personally called out is a dead hook. Okay? And I'm going to show you examples of of these types of vicious hooks that I'm I'm playing with, okay? But I'm just really, if nothing else, just watch this video and understand how seriously you need to take your hooks because it's I can almost guarantee you're not taking them seriously enough, right? Just based on uh the feedback and the experience that I've had with other students. Okay, so here's the pattern. Um, the vicious version is always the most specific, most embodied, most uncomfortable, and most charred version of your possible hook. It replaces abstraction with sensation. It replaces vague descriptions with details that make you feel something. Okay, the best hooks sound almost unbelievable. I went to sleep as a black woman and I woke up as a white woman. You're going to see some pretty crazy hooks. A lot of these are actually written with AI uh using a lot of the processes that we've come up on here. Um, believe it or not, this sounds like a ridiculous kind of uh uh idea, but this actually quite smoothly can transition into a pretty uh solid ad, right? But it's something that's so unbelievable you're like, what even happened on here? Another one, my doctor accused me of lying. This one's a little more in the ballpark of normal reality, but both of them are pushing the edge of reality. The other thing is that every word must earn its place. Okay, so again, when it comes to copy and ads and stuff like that, I honestly don't pay that much attention to words. I don't spend that much time writing or even editing at this point. I spend most of my time crafting the idea. The only place where I do a lot of thinking around the specific words is in the hook again, right? So, we want to make sure that all of our words are strong as possible. We want to use charged words. We'll talk about that in just a second. But let me show you an example of a hook before we jump into the eight different principles. My husband came out as gay after 26 years of marriage and it nearly killed me. Right? This is a crazy crazy hook. Definitely an unaware style hook uh in a story format. So it doesn't mean that all your hooks need to be this crazy, but I'm giving you a very strong example of a vicious hook. You read this and you're like, I want to know the story. Like I have to know what the story is. And there's some reasons why. One, it has an open loop. You want to know what happened here. It has emotionally charged language. Words like gay and killed, especially coming from a woman, carry a ton of emotional charge. This idea of stakes, where somebody's dying, a marriage is being destroyed. These are real heavy consequences. And it feels transgressive and unsafe. It feels borderline dangerous, like you're not supposed to see the story. It touches topics other people would avoid. Again, you can adjust this according to your brand, but if you just stay safe and conservative, a lot of times you're going to leave a lot of stuff on the table. So, this almost feels transgressive and unsafe. Cool. Uh we'll come back to this flow in just a second. Um but let's actually go through these first uh these big eight principles. So the first princip principle number one is it must be relevant in the first line. So it must be relevant to the individual in the very first line which is usually the first 10 to 20 words. If there's nothing relevant in that first line, there's no reason for them to click. It seems obvious like you shouldn't even have to say that. But again, I guarantee most, you know, unless you're really really focused on this right now, you're probably making this mistake uh in some place, right? Because most people do. So, what's important is uh I recommend that you watch the video that I did on unaware ads on this channel because I talk a little bit more about relevance and deeper uh deeper than I can in here. But relevance is interesting because there are certain kinds of trade-offs, right? So, the more specific you are, if you say Luke who lives in Miami, who's a great teacher, creative strategy, pay attention, right? That's a super super specific hook, but it's only it's very very relevant to me, but it's only relevant to one person, right? So, there's oftentimes a trade-off between how specific you are. Are you calling a specific problem? Um, are you calling a specific identity? Right? You'll actually get a lot of throughput, meaning you'll get a lot of relevance, but in general, you're going to limit your audience. Okay? But you want to find a balance where there's enough relevance to get people to be interested and take action, and yet it's broad enough that you can reach a big majority of people. Right? Okay. Now, why am I talking about this is because you want to understand uh the types of relevance that you have at your disposal because like I said, you want relevance in the first line, but people might interpret this as saying, "Oh, I need to call out my pain in the first line or call out my audience, right? Attention women who want to lose weight or if you feel like there's fat, stuff like that." And you might be wondering, well, how does how does a a hook like this, which doesn't tell me anything about the product, you couldn't even predict what kind of product, and this is, by the way, modeled off of a very successful winning ad, right? You can't predict what this is. It's like how is this ad still relevant? Right? And this is why uh it's important to understand these three parts of relevance. So hopefully you're following along and this is making sense. There are three categories of relevance. So the most obvious is the pain or condition call out. This is when you're calling out the pain that they have or some kind of condition or mechanism that they're already attached to. So if they know for instance, you know, if if they're fat, that's the pain that you're going to call out, right? But if they also understand that cortisol is bad for them, then you could also call out cortisol. Cortisol is not the exact pain, but it's part of the mechanism of pain and they believe that it's something important for them to pay attention to. So most people have no idea that the water they're drinking is feeding the bacteria and inflammation slowly killing them. Right? So if they believe that inflammation is bad, then this hook is relevant to them because we're calling out a condition they already understand is bad. Make sense? The next one is what's called a belief call out. This is where you have to be really intimate with what your market believes. Uh and you take a stance either for or against that belief. Um, there are typically often debates, right? Does cortisol actually cause weight? Is estrogen always good or estrogen is always bad? Right? There's oftentimes the debates that and and that a community will have. And there's types of myths and sacred cows, things that you're never supposed to question. Um, so those are the kind of hooks and ideas that will get attention, right? If you're talking to, you know, an entrepreneurial crowd, almost everyone has the belief that AI is good and you should be using AI. Okay, so if you start a hook talking about how AI is going to ruin some of these different businesses, right? You're basically challenging a belief that they would have and they're more likely to listen to it. Okay. And then the last last one uh so here's they told you red meat and butter would clog your arteries, right? So this is basically entering into this debate that they already have in their mind. And the last category of relevance is what I call just general openness. This is sort of like the soap opera hook, right? It's just something that's like gossip and general intrigue and general novelty. You don't really know anything about the product. It's not calling out a specific pain or condition or a belief that they have. It's just a genuinely kind of fascinating transgressive, borderline, seemingly unsafe story that we want to kind of, you know, be voyeristic and see what's going on. These are hard to write and they're really, really big bets because a lot of times they will completely fail. Uh, but when they win, they win really, really big. These are going to be your grand slam ads if you can pull them off. So, the first thing is there needs to be relevance in the first line. And again, this is not even a principle. It's almost like a checklist like it must be relevant in the first line. A lot of people skip this. So you want to make sure that you're either calling out a pain or a condition they care about. Key word is they care about it. Uh if you have for instance a unique mechanism that you're introducing but they don't actually know what that mechanism is. Like uh if you have electrical imbalance, right? Let's say that your your uh mechanism is around this idea of electrical imbalance. If they have no idea what electrical imbalance is and you're saying if you have if you do this you're going to cause electrical imbalance. They're going to skip right past it because they have no idea what it is. So, it has to be connected to something they care about, which is typically a pain point or the named condition they have. And then, of course, the beliefs and the general openness. Again, this should be common sense. Unfortunately, it's not very common. So, make sure this is in the first line, which means it must be in the first 10 to 20 words. Absolutely. The next one, you must use emotionally charged language. This is probably one of the most important topics and it's so easy to do. You can honestly just throw this next little part of the transcript into AI or just copy and paste this. If you uh join my email list, you'll get access to this document. you can just throw it in AI and say, "I need the most vicious possible words for this." So, you want to use language that is visceral, language that's vicious, language that feels like it comes from the earth, concrete, tangible with typically Germanic roots. Now, this may seem a little bit confusing, but um inside of English, you typically have words that come from French, you have words that come from Latin, you have words that come from English, which basically is like a Germanic root. And why is this important? So like a French word for sweat would be persspire. If you think of the word persspire, you think of someone very delicate, very French-like, persspire, right? It's kind of a sweet word, right? But if you think of Germans, you think of a sweat, right? Sweat just has this earthy, raw kind of feel to it, right? And there's tons of different examples of these. Okay, I copied and paste this from another thing on here, which is good. Uh, so here's one. fabrics versus cloth, excessive versus too much, insomnia versus sleeplessness, severe versus bad, synthetic versus man-made, persuas, right? Typically, these words are going to have a lower uh grade reading level, which is good because it creates less friction for the reader and people are not that good at reading. And it just creates this like strong, earthy, visceral, concrete feel. doesn't mean you need to sit there and think about is this a Germanic route or not. But again, you could just copy and paste everything I'm telling you in here into AI and it will give you the words for it and I guarantee your copy will be that much stronger, right? Even if you're using like AI um and again there beyond just using uh Germanic words, there are words that have strong connotations and emotional charge. I mean look at how these words make you feel. banned, sexless, stink, panties, lying, die, naked, killing, terrifying, mortal, beg, right? I mean, these are just such like heavy emotionally laden words. Doesn't mean every word in your hook needs it, but just tossing one or two of these words in it just creates this. You're like, whoa. Like, it's almost shocking. You want to you it gets people's attention, right? And if you look at the old copriting legends, like, you know, examples from uh John Carlton or other places, Eugene Schwarz, uh they're really really strong. They're not polite. They're not sanitized. Again, they're vicious. So, paying attention to the emotionally charged language is really key. Next one is you want to use natural intrigue and open loops. You don't want to give away too much inside of the hook. One of the things uh that I noticed that a lot of uh creative strategists or copywriters or marketers or stuff that they do is um they they'll kind of write a hook. I I wish I'm trying to think of an example, but they'll write a hook and they think that they're doing some sort of open loop because they say this one thing, right? Don't do this one thing and whatever, right? And when you really peel back the surface, it's like it's there's not actually that much of an open loop because people are going to make predictions about what you're saying like this. Don't do this one thing, you know, with AI, right? or uh the the number one thing to avoid if you use this specific AI tool, like if they can make a a an educated guess and feel confident in their guess of what you're going to say, then they have no business to actually read the ad, if that makes sense. They have no business to actually read the ad. So, what you want to do is you want to make really strong open loops where you're not giving away enough. It's enough that they're really curious, they need to know it, and they can't figure it out just from the hook. And then you want to kind of drag them through the copy before you actually reveal it to them. So, when I cleaned out my father's guest bedroom, I realized I inherited his sexless marriage. Right now, we have a story that's open. We don't know what happened. There's stakes. We want to find it out. And then, of course, you can notice the words like sexless marriage. Oops. Uh, which is very very strong in here. Okay. The next one is you want to have stakes and rubbernecking, right? So, people want to look at tragedy. Uh the rubbernecking thing basically comes from like if you're looking at a story, you want to pay attention to what people are having in their lives. But regardless, you want there to be some sort of stakes, like something heavy that is at stake. You know, your shoes might be murdering you or killing you, right? Or uh you know, the gay husband hook. Someone's life is falling apart. There needs to be a reason to actually pay attention to this. So yes, make it relevant, but there also needs to be stakes whether implicit or explicit that if they don't understand this certain belief or topic or they don't really read the story, um then there's going to be something bad that could happen, right? Or potentially something that's good, something that's at stake. The next one is you want to use specificity and tangibility. So again, you can overdo specificity and tangibility. This is these are like a spice basically. So you want to season it appropriately and not be over the top. But you can see some examples on here. Adding the specificity makes it feel more real, more concrete. The next one, of course, is it doesn't read like an ad. It should read like information that's promising some sort of new insight or it's a story or it's a confession or something else like that. Principle seven is that you want to use caveman language, which is super super simple. Again, we're coming back to this Germanic style word. You want to use just like very very simple, rooted, earthy kind of words. Very, very powerful stuff. And you can see those examples on here. And the last one is you want to do the consequence first but the mechanism later. Okay, we've already covered this to some degree uh which is um let's look at this one. So silver releases ions that neutralize bacteria in stored water, right? So unless they understand that releasing ions is a good thing, which most people don't, the only thing that they can actually care about is neutralizing bacteria and stored water. Right? But chances are most people are not really worried about this. It's not a common pain or something that they're paying attention to. The other example I already showed you was like uh don't do this in the morning. Uh or this weird morning habit causes electrical imbalance. Something something like that, right? the only thing they can really care about is electrical imbalance. But this is your mechanism. And if it's not commonly already well-known, then they're not really going to click on it. The relevance is not there. But if you said this weird morning habit spikes cortisol, well, most people already know and believe that cortisol is bad. So you could actually use this, right? So you only want to use the relevance or the consequence first and then tie in the mechanism later. Right? So a mistake that people do is they try to put that mechanism first. This is really just an extension of the first principle which is there needs to be relevance in the very very first line. Okay. Um so what I recommend to do next is to watch my videos on unaware ads uh and continue to watch some of the the breakdowns, ad breakdowns and things that I do on here because those are going to be very very powerful. But I hope these principles in here started to give you a sense of uh the eight different things that you need to do when you're writing hooks. Again, this is exactly what I teach my individuals. This is what I use to train my AI. And then of course just tons and tons and tons of different examples. Let me know in the comments below other types of videos that you want to see. If you want me to continue to do things with hooks or write hooks live or whatever you think would be most valuable to you. I just try to make as many of these videos as possible to uh to service you guys. So uh just let me know in the comments what you thought about this video and other videos that you want to see and I will see you in the next one. Peace.