I just got a text from my younger brother asking about getting into creating content. And so I wanted to make this video cuz I'm going to make this video and then send it to him as my explanation for why I think he should get into making content. And so I thought I'd make it and you guys can also benefit from my explanation that I would give to my closest family members, my closest friends if someone came to me and asked why I think making content is something that they should do. Because I don't say this to be hyperbolic. I genuinely mean it when I say that I think making content, building a personal brand, doing what I'm doing right now and have done for the last 10 years is the greatest wealthb buildinging opportunity of our lifetimes and if not greatest wealth buildinging opportunity of this century. And if I had one of you come up to me and ask Tom, what would you say to your closest friends if you could only tell them to do one thing and that one thing had to guarantee success for them in their future? What would it be? it would be content creation. I would tell them to start making content and I wouldn't even need to tell them anything else. And so for the rest of this video, I'm just going to give you my four best arguments as to why I think you should start making content. And if you're already making content, why I think you should continue making content in the future. The first reason, and the one that I hold most dearly for myself, is that you can start with literally nothing. You can start with no business plan, no skills, no idea of what you're ever going to do, how you're going to make money, or what the real plan is, and just make content and make progress as you figure out what you're doing. That's the kicker. If you're lost right now and you have no idea what to do with your life, there is no better opportunity than making content about that very thing. You could start a new channel right now and go, "Hey, my name's Tom and this is day one of me trying to figure out what the [ __ ] to do with the rest of my life." and it would probably do well. The key is you can start with literally nothing. No skills, no talent, no idea of what you're doing. Just choose to talk to a camera about whatever it is you want to talk about and in a number of years, a short number of years, be worth millions of dollars. And you won't even be able to personally comprehend the transformation that's taken place. I can barely even believe my own transformation that's taken place. When I first started making content, all I did was post my shitty photography that I just started learning, by the way, on a faceless Instagram account. That was all I was doing. And so, when I say I started making content in 2017, it wasn't that I had some talent or some skill or a huge amount of experience or some professional thing that I had that I was going to talk about on camera. No, I posted my shitty photography that I was learning to do as I was doing it. It took me two full years to even speak on my Instagram story because I was so shy. The idea of talking to camera was impossible for me for the first 2 years. And now I do this. I didn't speak to a camera publicly until 2018. And by 2024, I had my first million-doll year. Name one other opportunity where you can go through that level of transformation as quickly as that. I've unlisted most of my early YouTube videos because they're that embarrassing. You'd think after a few times this would get less awkward, wouldn't you? I had no ability to do this. I had none of the raw ingredients of someone that was going to be successful on social media. I had no business experience. I was a shitty personal trainer and a beginner photographer. And now 10 years later, nine years later, I am where I am because I decided to do a thing and kept doing it for 10 years. And so what I love so much about the opportunity of content creation is it's taught me all of the other things as a result of just doing it that I now use to run my business. And so I've become a pretty bloody good entrepreneur as a result of making content and choosing to make content. I've become a pretty good public speaker as a result of making content. I've become a pretty good writer as a result of making content. And all of those things are downstream from the decision to make content. And so, you can have no real idea of what you're doing. My brother's a carpenter. He has no experience running a business. He has no experience making content. But I know if I just tell him to make content about cricket cuz he's really good at cricket or make content about training cuz he's been recently running and training for Hierox. Or make content about his home builds cuz he's a carpenter and so he makes his own furniture and things at home. make content about those things. Even though he has no experience, no experience running a business, no experience doing any of the other things that'll eventually make him money, I know that if he just makes content and he sticks to it for a long enough period of time, it'll make him more rich than pretty much anything else I could tell him to do. And so, I love so much and I hold it so near and dear to my heart because in 2016, I had no prospects that by my late 20s I was going to be worth millions of dollars. Yet, because of one decision, I'm here now. My second argument for this is kind of an extension of number one, but I love that you can just build demand first without any need to monetize it. And I know I have the argument and I talk about it in a lot of my other content that you should start with the business in mind. So then it informs your content creation. But if you have no idea of what you're going to sell, if you have no particular area of expertise that you want to teach people with, or you're not like my brother who's a carpenter and makes his own furniture and so can't potentially sell something around a niche interest, if you're just someone who's young and you want to make content about your life or about your training and you have no real idea of how it's going to be a business yet, the key thing with content is you can just start generating demand and then you can meet that demand where it is with a product they already want. In business, it's literally the exact opposite. In a traditional business, you have to come up with a winning product. Obviously, you do a bit of market research. You try to find something that's pre-existing, a desire that's already in the marketplace, but generally, you have to come up with a winning product. You have to build that product. Spend months, sometimes years, building that product. And then you have to go and find customers for that product. You have to make the product and then you have to go and find demand for it. Whereas when you're making content, you're essentially just building demand for something that doesn't exist yet. And then when you feel like you've got an appropriate amount of demand, you can just ask, "Hey guys, what do you want? Make it and then meet them where they already want to be." And so some of the best content creators that have made the most money have just built these huge audiences and then gone, "What you want?" and made a product that those people already want. And so these are the fitness influencers who've started supplement companies or training apps or things that their audience already wanted. It wasn't that they set out wanting to start a training app or a supplement company. It's that they built an audience around themselves and their lifestyle and their own training and then they monetized it by asking their audience or listening to what their audience wants. You can be completely lost, have no idea what to do with your life, and then make a series about being lost and having no idea what to do with your life and then slowly build an audience escaping that process and learning what to do. and then you can go back and teach other people to go through the process that you've just been through. There is no other business that exists where that's possible. The third reason is it's an opportunity that compounds endlessly. Creating content and building your personal brand is essentially like building equity in your name. Each time you make a piece of content, you are contributing something and in return you gain equity, power, leverage, compounding value in your name. And you can use that for whatever you want. You know, let's say in 3 to four years from now, I go, you know what? I'm done. I'm done with knowledge businesses. I don't want to sell info anymore. I want to start a software company. Using my personal brand, I could get that business off the ground quicker than if I didn't have any personal brand at all. And so I'm able to leverage the equity that I built in my personal brand long before that software company ever existed to get a leg up in a new business arena I have no expertise or experience in. And the best part, I'll use my personal brand to grow that company. And then after I sell that company, I still get to keep my personal brand. It's essentially like equity I can use except I never lose any of the principle. My name holds its value regardless of how I use it. Obviously, if I use it in something that ruins my reputation, that's the only way I can truly lose equity. But as long as I'm a good person, I think I'm a good person. I think I have good morals and good ethics. I'm not going to do something that's out of character. And so, generally, I'm pretty confident that my brand's going to hold its equity. Something that I genuinely want to do in my future is I want to write a book. I want to write multiple books. I want to be an author in my future. And because I've built my personal brand and I have an audience of people that would all willingly buy and read my book, that could potentially put me at the top of best sellers list, a place where I would surpass experienced authors that have spent their entire lives building to be able to be on those bestsellers list. And I get to be there as a beginner author with no experience. All because I have a personal brand. They spent their entire lives perfecting their craft, becoming better authors, writing better content, and I came along or I will come along, write a book, sell it to my audience, and potentially pass them all because I did something prior that generated the traffic that they worked their entire lives to build. And so, obviously, this hasn't happened yet for me, but it has happened for other people. There are plenty of personal brands, content creators who have written books, who have skyrocketed to the top of the New York Times bestsellers list or the Amazon bestsellers list or the Sunday Times bestsellers list because they have an audience they can sell their book to. A group of people that are willing to buy the books, read the books, and promote the books to other people. The point I'm trying to make is your personal brand compounds forever and you can grow that personal brand forever, but it's also leverable into whatever opportunity you want to point it at. And so once you grow it, you literally just point your personal brand at something and that thing is probably more likely to grow. It's literally like alchemy. You create content, you build your personal brand, and then once you've built it, you literally now have the ability to create cash out of thin air. The confidence I have because I now know because of the audience that I've built and because of the brand that I've built that I could create, if I ever needed it, $100,000 straight away is enormous. the freedom that gives me in my life because I know I have the ability to create cash out of thin air if I ever needed to or I have the opportunity to point my personal brand into whatever new direction I want to go in depending on what I want to do with my life is enormously freeing and and an opportunity I never thought I would have in my lifetime. And the best [ __ ] part is you build that equity with nothing but your time. Imagine cuz it's pretty poignant right now. The markets are crashing. Everyone's trying to funnel as much cash as they can into Bitcoin and the S&P and all their other assets. Imagine if all you had to do was spend an hour talking to a camera each day and then at the end you got to buy more Bitcoin or own more of the S&P or buy more of a certain ETF. How much time would you spend talking to a camera? Probably a lot. That's essentially what you're doing with your personal brand. Each piece of content you make, each time you talk to a camera, each time you do what I am doing right now, you are building equity in your name. And that equity can be used for the rest of your life. It can create a level of freedom that I don't think you can possibly comprehend right now. Let me just jump in here for a sec. If you want my help and my team's help turning your knowledge into a profitable online business, I would love to help you do that. If that is you, you are someone who's been making content for a while. If you have a particular point of expertise and you want to turn that into a knowledge business, click the link in the top line of the description. Have a read about time to build. And if you believe it's something that is suitable for you, I would love to see you in there. The fourth point on this list is having a personal brand is literally a cheat code for business. As a result of having a strong personal brand, you get away with things that most business owners lose sleep over. Suddenly, you won't have to spend an endless amount of money acquiring new customers because you've built your own distribution system that requires nothing but your time. Across everything, my brand generates somewhere between 3 and 4 million views every single month. That's somewhere between half a million and a million unique impressions, meaning 1 million unique human beings see me every single month. Not only are they one million human beings, but they're generated organically, meaning that they are very targeted impressions. If you wanted to create the equivalent in volume and quality of those impressions, it would literally cost you hundreds of thousands, potentially millions of dollars in ads. Not to mention that the level of trust that I have with my audience is literally impossible to create with ads. And so, the mathematics of how much those impressions would cost is quite literally irrelevant because you actually can't create that level of trust. But the point remains the same. The cost of generating that much traffic and acquiring the customers that I'm able to acquire for free is enormously high. Some business owners would murder for the ability to connect with an audience the way that I am able to every single month. The second area where personal branding is a cheat code for business is because you get to take the express elevator to the top of any room. Let me tell you a story. So, I went to New York for the first time in April. It was just a two-eek holiday. Me and McKilly wanted to go and we've both always wanted to go to New York. We loved the place. It was awesome. And whilst I was there, I didn't know anyone there. I knew some people through social media, but I didn't really know anyone in New York. And I was posting daily stories sharing what I was doing and sharing that I was there. And I received a message. And this message was from a successful entrepreneur who was inviting me to come to an inviteonly poker night. The buyin to be invited to this poker night was $10 million US in yearly revenue. I had only just passed one. But the reason why I got invited is because this person followed me on YouTube. I got to skip the queue ahead of all the people making one and two and three and four and five and six and seven and eight and $9 million a year. I got to skip the queue and take the express elevator to the top of that room because I built my personal brand. And so I've had conversations with people that I have no business speaking to. I've been on podcasts that I have no business being on. I've been in rooms with people, had dinner with people, been in conversations that I have no business being in because I built a personal brand. And so it is quite literally an express elevator to the top of rooms that you won't believe you've been invited to because you make content. I am the same [ __ ] dude who 10 years ago was posting his shitty photography on Instagram and too shy to talk to camera and now I'm getting invited to private $10 million in revenue buyin poker nights in New York City. How the [ __ ] does that make any sense? The next reason why personal branding is a cheat code in business is because the best talent in your space will seek you out. So my editor who's editing this video right now, Callum or Cal, he'll probably get annoyed at me for calling him Callum, but my editor, and I hope you don't mind Cal by telling this story, but my editor who's editing this video right now had on his vision board at the start of last year work with Tom. Cal is arguably one of the best editors in Australia. Kyle is arguably one of the best editors in the world. And both of them see me out to work with me. Cal used to commute an hour and a half each way to work from my house down the coast 3 days a week because he wanted to work with me. I had Cal, one of the best editors in the country, commuting from a metro area, a business district to a regional country town to work with me because he was seeking me out as a result of my personal brand. Most business owners have to fight tooth and [ __ ] nail in order to attract the best talent in their space. Meanwhile, I have the best talent in the space having on their vision board that they want to work with me. And so, most business owners would literally murder for that. And so, I say all of this pleading with you to make content. And if you are making content, keep doing it. It might not feel like it yet, and it may very well not feel like it for a while. And if you're just starting, it's definitely not going to feel like it yet. It's going to feel messy and for the first few years you're going to be like, "I don't know about this, Tom. This doesn't feel like it's working." And then in a moment, all of it will change. And so, I'll finish this video how I started it. If I had one of my closest friends come up to me or I had my brother or my sister come up to me and ask, "Tom, what can I do? What's one thing I can start doing today that is almost guaranteed to create success for me in my future?" It would be content creation by a country mile. There is nothing else that comes closer to the opportunity of just making content, of documenting your life, of sharing your interests, of sharing your passions, of sharing what you care about on the internet because it can quite literally shift the entire trajectory of your life. I don't doubt for a second that I would not be where I am today. I would not be anywhere near where I am today had I not chosen to make content in 2017. I thank that younger version of me every [ __ ] day that he made the decision to do that. I have no idea why he did. I have no idea why he chose to share his shitty photography uh on a faceless Instagram account. I have no [ __ ] comprehension of what spurred him on to do that. But he did that and I get to be where I am today as a result of his actions. And so hopefully this video acts as the catalyst for some of you who are on the fence deciding if this is something you want to do. Trust me, it is. And by the way, it'd be remiss of me not to include a little plug at the end of this. If you want my help and my team's help starting this trajectory and getting you on your path, maybe you're a little bit more advanced, you've been making content for a little while, there'll be a link in the top line of description. Click it, have a read, and if it's something you think is suitable for you, I would love to have you join. And if so, I'll see you in