Claude has changed social media forever. You can now create content in minutes, build your brand, your business, saving you time [music] and money. But most advice out there says a lot and shows you nothing. I've been doing social media marketing for over 10 years, and in the last 2 years I've gone allin on AI, improving my workflows, [music] systems to make me a better creator. So today, I'm bringing you a full course exactly how to use claw to get more followers, make more money, and stop guessing. My name is Alex. Let's jump into it. AI has changed everything for those of us trying to do something on social media. It can now design. It can now edit. It can now write. It can now research. It can now schedule. What used to potentially take a week or hundreds of dollars can be done in an afternoon.

And it took something as well. A lot of us have actually stopped thinking. The tool got good enough that we don't make decisions anymore. We just sit back. But the issue with that is that everyone is doing that. It all looks the same. same tools, same prompts, same output. Hey, look at my hook. Everyone arrived at the same place and it's frustrating. So, you might be in this situation right now. Even though you're using AI, it's telling you everything, you're not getting the results. 40 minutes of fighting it to get something worse than what you would have originally made.

I've been there many times and you'll see the way I built this course. This is about you being the captain of this ship. If you've come here to think that you're going to be sitting on a beach, you know, sipping coconut water, you're just going to press one button and you're going to be a millionaire, this is not for you. But I will show you how I've been able to save tons of time every month, hours and hours, replace multiple people on my team, and make more output, get better results.

But it's taken me some time to get to this point, which is now why I've put this together, and you're here. But please pay attention to this. Now, as I said, I did all of it, you know, posted things I had not read properly, published stuff I would have never written, made more and it worked less. Guys, please keep the speed, get the thinking back. The goal is for us to be this leader of our business, of our idea. You are watching this and you have a unique idea that I have no idea about, that your neighbor has no idea about, that no one does. Okay? So, it's about us. AI is going to give us that ability to make this a reality. So, what I've built is going to put that power in your hands. Okay? AI does the work. You make the call. It still sounds like you. I I want you to be you. I don't want you to be Claude. Let's get this party started.

Okay. Who is this course for? This is for you if you make content yourself. Okay. and you're tired of potentially spending a lot of time on it, wasting a lot of money, and looking like everyone else. You run a business on your own, and you do not have a team behind you. Okay? I've had multiple people on my team. I've spent hundreds of thousands on on freelancers, designers, team members, and I've been able to replace a big portion of that team because of AI.

And you can do the exact same thing if you start to understand what we're building in this video. Social media can become much easier for you. If you do this for others and have clients, then this is also for you. I've been a social media manager many years when I was younger and I know how much time it takes and this will definitely free up a ton of time with you for you whilst maintaining that high level that we're always going for. So the stuff that we're going to actually build today in this course, eight brains that you know that know your brand, audience and business and those brains are gamechanging. Okay. Um 20 skills doing the work you keep repeating. So you will learn about skills which are massive. 30 days of content from one idea. A way to tell whether any of it is actually good.

a visual system Claude follows every single time. Carousels, images, and video on demand. So, you'll actually be able to create content with this, showing you how Claude can do that for you. And then finally, an offer, a funnel, and a full email sequence. So, I deserve a like already, don't I? And a subscribe if you haven't. Um, but you are going to get a ton of value in this. And these are just, you know, me summarizing these hours into six points or seven points. There's going to be more. You're going to learn a lot. Get a notepad. You know, take your time with it. Save the video, download it, do what you need to do. Okay, this is a game changer. So, there's we've split this up into three different sections. So, we have the think section, think section, which is 15 minutes, no tools, the decisions you have to make before anything else. Okay? So, and every section is important, okay? Okay?

Because you can't just build without thinking. Build the bulk of it. Screen recording through the whole way. So you will see that there is multiple different kind of build moments. Essentially all of that is where you're going to learn hands-on how I create these workflows that build this system. And then finally, we'll have the judge stage, which is what AI cannot do for you and what you can actually start doing once you've completed this course, a plan for you. So every step is going to be extremely impactful. Let's jump into it.

Okay. So, it would be a Claude video without a real understanding of all the different models. So, when we go on to Claude, there will be different models that we can pick from. Okay. So, for example, right now there are four different ones. So, you got Hiku, you got Sonet, you got Opus, and Fable. These two are the ones that normally people use. Although there's a lot of hype at the moment about fable over time some of these might go. So you might be watching this video and HQ might not exist but what I'm teaching you here is not about specifically like the names of the models but the understanding of how they work. Okay. So for example normally with all um kind of AI models you'll have different ones. Okay. And how they work is like this. So it's like a business. You have an apprentice which is Hu. You have your daily driver which means your kind of uh low cost uh that can do kind of the basic tasks which is set in this case. You have your manager which is higher costs remember we have to pay for AI usage even on a paid plan you know you get credits etc which get um renewed then you have opus which is like your manager and then you have fable which is your architect. So you can see for example it goes from low to high in terms of cost. You know Fable costs way more to run than HU. So when we're using AI we want to understand this. Okay. So when we're you know it's not about using opus kind of for everything because there's certain tasks which are just going to save us a lot of um credits simply by using sonet and we'll get the same output. And it's the same thing with fable. Fable is a really really good um you know pioneering AI model but it builds the system. It doesn't do my basic tasks. So, if I'm creating skills, if I'm creating um you know, specific big prompts, big workflows, you know, there might be parts in this video where I'm using Opus, where I'm using Sonet, and you might think, you know what, I'm actually going to use Fable for that and have a prompt that I can, you know, a strong prompt that I use, you know, all the time going forward. And I want you to just understand that. So, Fable is like for specific things, you know, kind of one-time things that you will do. Okay, I need a really good project file for that. I need a really good prompt for that. I'll use fable. Then switch over to for example sonet or opus. Okay, there are certain things that we can uh use it for. Although I do recommend kind of sitting around here and then moving to fable. So for example, you'll see you know exactly what I mean. So fable in a logic builds the brain. Okay, so this is kind of a one long session builds a brain which then allows it to turns it into skills and projects. Then Sonet for example can run that every day or you can run it on Opus. So you've got the kind of two choices and hand uh HQ is able to handle kind of the boring tasks.

Now this depends on the workflows etc and you'll see throughout the video but you need to be able to kind of differentiate this. Okay, do not spend all your time on Fable. You can spend all your time here, but you still want to use Fable. Okay, so essentially building a brand from scratch, building a brain, brand brain from scratch. So if you see me doing a brand brain in this video and I'm using Opus, use Fable. And if there's a new model when you you're watching this which is higher than Fable or replaces Sonic, etc., you just need to mix and match. It's this simple and you'll always be able to understand which is which. Turning one article into a month of content. Opus everyday posting, captions, edits. If you have a very strict formula for your captions which fable has produced for you, boom, you can use sonic for that. Okay, default is usually right. Okay, so when we go to claude, you'll see that there is the models, then there's the effort.

Okay, with this it means you know how much effort is that kind of prompt or that specific thought uh generation going to take. Okay, some of them will have extra you know extra low whatever. I recommend going usually with the default unless it's like a researchbased one or you really, you know, you're at the limit with Fable, you know, you're, you know, you can and you can want to push things, then obviously you can go higher, but usually the default works very much enough. Uh, very much uh, yeah, enough. The names change, but the frameworks don't. You will see me switch models throughout this video or this course, and the versions have moved on by the time you watch it. It just happens, you know. I'll go to bed today and wake up and it's chat GBT 29. It's Claude 58. It's Nano Banana 70. If you understand this framework, you can decide which model to use for anything I show you. Want to hand manage a job to the architect? Do it. Your call, your credits. It's the logic that we're playing with. It's it's it's the thought process, the workflow. Okay? You just from watching this part understand exactly how the models work. Okay? So to make this video possible, Hicksfield have sponsored it. Now Hicksfield are one of my sponsors, but they are also one of the tools that I use every single day. So essentially in Hicksfield, this is what's going to allow us to create our content. Okay. So when I'm using Claude and I want to use, you know, image generation models, video generation models, um I'm able to do that because I've connected it with my MCP in Claude. Okay. So if I press MCP, you'll see all I need to do is follow these steps. You'd copy this, go to connectors on Claude, and boom, you'd have Higfield inside Claude, which is going to allow us to do everything in this kind of course in terms of image generation, video generation, etc.

Hicksfield is my favorite platform for this because it makes the whole process soon as soon as there's a new kind of model chatgbt image 2 etc. Then essentially it will be available and that means it's available in your claude. Okay. So for example nano banana pro chatgbt image 2. You might be watching this and it's chatgbt 57 you know it will be available and that just means my workflow you know when I first started using AI you know you'd have to go to this platform then that platform then this platform then that whereas now I'm just in claude with a connection to Higsville via the MCP and this makes my life so much easier now you can see you know I use it to do my color grading you know this is one of my thumbnails playing around with the color grading um amazing stuff you know it's and I'm able to do all of this uh with the power of Hixfold. Now, there are a few other good things as well to, you know, look at as well. There's like image upscale, phase swap, um you know, for video, it's the exact same thing. You know, video upscale. So, if you have a video that's kind of low quality, 720p, whatever, 10, and you want to upscale it to 4K, for example, it's all available here. And it works in a similar way to like the credit system. Um I mean, most AIs are credit system, but the price point works well. The most beautiful part of it all is that it just connects with Claude and the process is smooth. So, you will see throughout this video how we're able to create an insane amount of content fast just due to this connection. The link will be in the description for you to explore Higsfield so that you can create content with the power of Claude. Okay.

So, you have the models and you understand Claude, but it doesn't have any way for it to know who you are. So most of the outputs are just going to be generic. Well, now we're going to build the single document that it will be able to read from. Essentially, it's brain and soul which come from you. Let's jump into it. Hey everyone, just a quick disclaimer that this YouTube course does have some of my existing YouTube videos, but it's been cut up and I've added a ton of new content to it as well so that it reads and feels more like a course so that you could just stick to one video and kind of go through the whole process so that you can understand how Claude can impact your social media the best way. So this is kind of a you know compilation of everything plus more on top so that you can get a clean flow of everything from start to finish so that you can maximize your clawed and social media gains.

Okay. So it begins now before we jump into the good stuff you know the visuals the brand building we need to set the foundations. Now as I've said there are multiple different brains. Okay. So to have a full system you need all the brains together. But for example, today we're building the visual brain. So what I want to do first is just build a foundation so that even if you have only a visual brain, this still works super well. So what we're going to do is build a foundation. Now for this, essentially the goal is for us to create the visual brain. Okay? But this doesn't just come out of Finette. You know, we need to understand why we're building. What's it for? So we're going to go through very quickly. Trust me, this takes about 5 10 seconds. But you need to follow the steps from this point on in the video.

If you just download the documents I provide and answer them, you are going to miss the way I'm telling you to answer them because it makes a massive difference and 10 minutes extra of your time is going to make all the difference. So for the visuals with intelligence, not just aesthetics. Okay, we're feeding the visual brain with intelligence, not just aesthetics. Identity, audience, voice, we will get the visual brain. Once we get to the visual brain, we're going to start building. So identity, what does this mean? So one sentence, let's say, I'm a content strategist. No, it's better to say I help overwhelmed business owners create content that brings them clients.

It's going to help Claude more. Three, five brand words. You know, this is more about how your brand should feel, the atmosphere when someone experiences it, you know, so bold, minimal, premium, raw, clean, calm, intense, you know, so these are all singular lines. What you're not is super important because going forward, you want to make sure that Claude doesn't venture into these categories. So, these kind of negative prompts, bold, but not aggressive, you know, minimal but not cold. I'm going to show you how to do this quickly. So, don't worry. So, understand your audience. For example, I've been doing this so long. I understand my audience, although I'm always researching. But if you don't understand your audience that well, you can go to your DMs or comments or your competitors. You can go on to Reddit, YouTube comments, X. There's so many places that you can find stuff. So, for example, let's say I was doing something in productivity or for this project, you know, I am. So, I'm going to press or type in productivity up here. And then what I would do is type in like struggles. And that will show me everyone that's typed in a title with like struggle. And then what I can do is, you know, press like top or something all time. You're not lazy, you know, etc., etc. [music] So, for example, this one, okay, the box breathing technique, you know, and you want to see what people are talking about, you know, what they're struggling with, etc. And you'll get a lot of information from this and you can just screenshot it and put it into Claude.

Now, let's jump into Claude. So, the first thing we want to do, so we're not creating a project yet. What I want you to do is grab one of the documents I've provided, which is the foundation document. So, let me grab that. [music] So, this is a simple foundation builder. Okay? So, you want to just slap that in there and press start. And this is going to be super important when we get to the visual builder. So, you just simply want to answer the questions. Okay? So, it shouldn't take you long. You'll get a very simple document which you can then take to the next part. Okay? So, three sections, identity, audience, voice, ask you a few questions as I've just shown you right here. You know, it's all here and it's all going to really help you.

Okay, so remember your audience visual taste matters. Again, this is a bit of research. Light backgrounds, dark backgrounds, but we're going to go into more visuals later on. Voice, why it matters. Now, the voice is super important before I move on to the branding and the visuals. What this means is Claude is going to be creating content for you. Visuals, yes, branding, but the way you present your ideas is super important. So just to give two kind of similarities or differences, establishing a consistent morning routine can significantly enhance your productivity and overall well-being throughout the day. So this is without my voice rules, but with my voice rules, your morning routine isn't working.

Here's why. So for me, I want my brand or my, you know, what I'm building to be direct to the point and sharp. And for me, that's going to be super important. So that's when there's, you know, any times where kind of Claude is waffling or not giving me what I want, it knows, you know what, we're just going to go boom, straight to the point. And this is really, really important. You'll be able to find your rules. You know, it's not too difficult. Okay, the gap between these two lists, your voice rules. Stop planning. Start with one thing. Unlock your full potential with these strategies. You know, this doesn't sound like me. And Claude is going to guide you on this. If you're struggling with any of these, just ask it and you can take it from there. Okay. So, you have what you say and who you say it to, but you don't have how any of this is going to look on social media. So, now it's time to work on the colors, fonts, and layout rules because this is where the magic starts to happen.

Strap in because this is where it's going to get fun. So, this is your visual brain that we're about to build. Please pay attention because what I'm about to show you is super super useful and it's going to help you so much. Drop a like. Okay, so this is roughly, you know, what it will look like. Obviously, this is a lot bigger than the foundation one. So, let's just run it and jump into it. Now, what we're going to do is basically head over to Claude and what you want to do is again build a new chat. Okay, so we're just going to do this again in new chat and then we'll start moving to projects later. But we have the brain box foundation which we just created with the foundation. Then you want to grab my visual brain builder again which will be available for you and you want to put these into the chat and press start. Now I've already started just so that we can skip a few steps so you can see and essentially it will start asking you questions and helping you build your brand system, your visual system, brain um and you can see right here. So, do you already have brand [music] colors? No. Suggest a palette for me. Boom. And it will start suggesting palettes. Now, I'm going to show you a few ways to also get your own ideas and not just rely on Claude. So, for example, color palette. How does this color palette feel? This palette is perfect. Okay, great. What background, you know, what carousels, etc. Remember, this is specifically for carousels. Now, what you want to do for color, I wouldn't suggest just listening to Claude based on the foundation. You want to go with your own vision as well. What we're going to do is head over to this website right here. So, coolers, colors, I don't know. Um, but essentially you'll be able to do a lot of color theory work, understanding the color palettes that you want. This is so so important to explore 10 million different palettes. And you can see that there's different tools like the color contrast checker, which is super important for carousels. You don't want colors that blend in together. But basically, it will show you colors that match together. So, for example, if I type in black or pick black, it will show me, okay, this is a palette that works. And what you want to do then is press visualize colors. And you can then get all of these kind of [music] examples of how these colors work together. This is so important for creating content because a lot of people get colors wrong. Now, they've got so many different options here. Color picker, everything you need. You can type in a specific color and you can start from there. So, cherry rose and it will give you the hex code, which you can see I've got right here. And you can start building from that. And you can even give Claude one specific hex code and say, okay, I want to start with this one. You know what colors would match this? [music] If you want a high contrast color palette, it will suggest colors that have high contrast against it. If you want colors that are warm together, so orange, red, white, you want that to be your palette, it will do that and it'll be able to start building that for you. So, it's super important to spend some time on this because color is going to be a key component for you.

So, for me, I've gone with this color way right here. Now, you can see right here, it's giving me the suggestions, you know, how does this color palette feel? I'm just typing any question. But the way it asks questions is super useful. So, yes, I have fonts. No, I don't. So, I'm going to put yes, I have fonts. And for fonts, what you want to do, two different options. So you want to use this website right here, font joy. And essentially, this shows you visual hierarchy of fonts. So typography hierarchy. The really good carousels on Instagram have different typography.

Okay? So it's not just one font. So you'd have a headline font, potentially a subheading font, body font, a CTA font. And this just gives you more visual contrast, and it allows the eye to move like a ping-pong ball. So it keeps people engaged, and it's just basic kind of hierarchy for typography. This website right here will, you know, you just press generate. It will show you different combinations. You can add combinations. Now, if you want to just find general fonts that suit you, Claude can give you input for all of these, but I do recommend you spending some time and looking at at doing your own research cuz you will find your own creativity. And we'll get to that in a point. But you can see here 101 fonts, tons of different fonts. You know, you can just type in handwriting, bold, whatever you are feeling. Again, Google fonts. You know, if I want a medieval font, boom, here are the medieval fonts.

You know, if I'm doing something medieval, they're right here. And then I have them. And I can insert that information to Claude. For example, I would just grab this and say [music] Times New Roman. You know, everyone knows that font. And you can build it that way. Okay. So, we're about to jump into some mood boarding. Now, this is super important because one of the hardest things about creating content is inspiration. Okay? And inspiration or creativity can actually comes from external factors. So, your environment.

And a mood board is going to help you have constant reference points, whether it's visually, whether it's, you know, branding to give to Claude. So, we're about to jump into that right now. And your creative stack would look something like this. So, let's jump into that right now. So, that you have a creative system as well. Pinterest is going to be your best friend. I've created a new account for this project. I'm going to go to your boards and you're going to create new board. Then, in your new board, it will look something like this.

And what you want to do is start building your visual identity, your creative stack. This is super important for your brand. Anytime I need inspiration, whether it's for colors, creativity, images, for none of an honor, it's all going to be here based on my brand. And in 10 minutes, you can save 88 pins and boom, you're ready, you know. So, anytime I need some ideas or anything, it's all here. And you can even base your brand off this. This creativity mood board is super important. And this is going to help you as well with the next part, which is kind of your layout and composition.

With your carousels, you need to decide, you know, what type of text do you want? Do you want kind of these longer texts? Do you want big bold text? You know, you need to really do your research and think about that. But this is going to be important because otherwise Claude is or AI is just going to throw random stuff at you. No rules visual brand applied. Again, text positioning on images. Again, I want it to not overlay my images. So, for example, if I have this image right here, I don't want Claude to suddenly put text on top of this. Okay? So, it needs to understand to put it, you know, in the corner. So, that again is super important. The next thing content architecture the way the content flows and Claude is going to guide you through this. Okay, so visual rhythm means you know especially for carousels means how they kind of change.

So slide two will be much brighter and this just helps with retention. So you would just keep answering these questions and at the end you will basically have your visual brain which is going to really be so important for you going forward. And if you want me to make more videos and you like this topic, how to use AI as a content creator, as a social media marketer for different elements, please let me know. But the brain is a big thing for me. You know, the psychology brain is a huge factor. The audience brain strategy, these specific ones are just examples.

My brains, I have a ton of them which I use independently and together in multiple different scenarios. So you can see here as I showed you at the beginning, the final kind of one for me. So we we talked through the audience. We got the voice rules. We've got the color system. We've got the typography, image direction, you know, the aesthetic, storytelling, few visuals, you know, I've got the slide positioning, I've got the layout, compositioning, I got text positioning, I got the margins and safe zones, I got text on image, contrast rules, density, all of this. Think about how much information this is now for Claude when it creates your carousels in this world where millions and millions of people are creating the same content.

Okay, so here's a quick summary of the visual brain. This is super important, you know, because with your visual brain, you can add more to it over time. So, if there's a carousel or you make [music] a change with your logo, anything you want to add, you can add it over time. Remember that system that Claude can reference it at any time. But this is kind of the basic. I want you to screenshot and tick and get ready for your kind of system to begin that visual brain checklist. So, you can simply screenshot this, take stuff, understand it, and we can move on. But this will help you so much. But remember, over time, you can add to it, you can tweak it. You know, my prompts you can tweak.

They are not the final prompts. They are to help you understand, to get you going. You know, if there's a particular one, you know, you want to make eight slides, you want to do four slides, [music] that's on you to identify that. But this is going to get you started in a completely different way. Okay. So now we've got our visual brain document. We're going to create a new project. And this means that now any chat in this project, it's going to have this visual brain backing it. So I'm going to call visual brain like the video. Create project. And boom. What you would add here is your document. So the document that you would have just created which is right here. I'm going to literally put all of this like this.

Press copy and boom. Have it in my instructions. Paste the instructions right here. Save instructions. And now you have your visual brain. So now we're going to actually create some content using this. Okay. So what we're going to do is we're going to paste this prompt which is similar to the previous video. Very similar. Again prompting can be better but for the purpose of this video I'm going to grab an article. So, I've got an article right here. So, last video I did my YouTube script, but for this project, I want to do something different. I'm going to put this article right here, and let's see what it comes up with. So, I'm going to press this right here. So, I'll see you in a sec.

Now, of course, something I haven't mentioned as well is the logo building. I'm not going to go into today, but creating your logo once you have a color palette, etc. You can even ask Claude, use Nano Banana, use, you know, I'm sure I've actually mentioned it in videos how to create logos. Maybe I'll put something up here. Um, but you can use virtually anything to create a logo. But once you have your colors, once you have your typography and things like that, everything like logos, etc. becomes a lot easier. Now part of your brand um or your brain, you could add your logo as a reference point, you know, to always add the CTA slide, etc., etc. So, you can take this to another level. So, you can quickly see following the rules value reset near black.

You can always just press this [music] and see how Claud is kind of working through its process. We've got our results. So, this is the first one. So, based on that prompt you just saw, here's what we have. So, if I open this up here, sometimes what I like to do is do the HTML first before I do PNG, just so that I can get it. So, for an initial one, it's not too bad. Now, I did change my branding slightly because I want it to be a bit more warm and have this certain color way, but in terms of what it's done initially, it's not bad. Okay, now obviously we can do way better than [music] this, but for an initial, you know, first time with the visuals, it's followed kind of the visuals that we want, you know, followed the branding.

But now we're going to take this to another level because there's no images and we can do better than this. But for a start, it's not too bad. The main [music] thing that I've wanted here is that is followed kind of the patterns that I've interpreted in the visual brain. So before we build anything, you need to know exactly what you're building because branding isn't one thing, it's four. And almost every creator, social media I look at, even the ones doing well, has maybe one of them. [music] Two if they're lucky. why their page looks fine but doesn't feel like anything. A real brand has four and [music] they all agree with each other. So pillar one is positioning and this is who your content is for. And trust me, I'm going to show you everything what you stand for, what you're against. Most creators say something like I help creators grow and that tells me nothing. A real positioning is sharp. I build content system that drive leads, clients, and revenue without the burner. Specific, pointed. you know exactly [music] who it's for and what it's against. Pillar two is voice. This is how you sound. The words you use, the words you'd [music] never use. Here's the fast test. If someone read your captions with your name removed, would they know it's you?

For most creators, the answer is no. [music] That's the gap. Your voice should be consistent. It's recognizable without your face on it. Now, the next one is visual identity. And this is where branding often ends up. This is your palette, your fonts, your motives. But the point isn't you have colors. The point is that the colors mean something. They're used the same way every time. Most creators have a palette. [music] Real brands have a system, a reason every color is there, and a rule for when each one shows up. If you want me to make a bigger video about visual identity, let me know in the comments.

Now, pillar four is [music] story. This is the through line. Why you do this, who you were before, what you believe now. The thing that makes a stranger care about your content before they consumed any of it and most creators completely skip this and then they wonder why their content feels flat even when their information is good. Now, here's the part that most people miss. The reason we split branding into [music] four pillars isn't just to organize it. It's to keep it dynamic.

Brands change, visuals get refined. Stories evolve. If your brand, especially with AI, is one big undifferentiated thing. Every change [music] means starting over with four pillars. If your visuals need to shift, you just update the visual document. The other three stay locked in. That's how a brand evolves without losing itself. Now, when all four pillars agree with each other, you stop having to make brand decisions. The decisions are already made. Every video, every thumbnail, they all pull from the same place. And that's when content stops feeling like effort and starts feeling like a system. And this is extremely [music] important if you want to succeed in the content world. So that's what we're going to build. Positioning, voice, visual identity, story, all four in one document inside [music] Claude. I call it the master brand brain. And once you have it, you'll never look at your content the same way again. So before I build it, I want to show you what looking at a brand through these four pillars actually looks like. So I'm going to do something that most brand videos will never attempt to do, and that's look at my own.

Okay. So for you to do this properly, we need to first gather a few things. Okay, I've made this so easy for you that you better drop a like. The first thing is gathering. So there are five different things that basically we need to gather. These go into audience, voice, visual, offer and existing brand. Now if you are a beginner or you have virtually nothing, don't worry. I about to guide you through this. So the first thing is audience. To feed our brand, to build our brand, to have this master brand brain, it's only as smart as what you feed it. We need to give it something at the beginning. And going on Canva and saying, "Oh, this is a nice color. Now that's my brand." No, let me show you.

I've got all of these documents in my vault and you can access everything there. The vault is in the description. You sign up, you get access to all my resources from my videos. So the first thing is this document right here. So this is a layer of our brain. This document holds everything you know about the people you make content for. Okay. The reason I've done it like this is because you can get Claude to help you go create this and do it. So, you could just literally put it in there as well.

But I've done everything here for you. So, where to find it? Instagram DMs and YouTube comments, newsletter replies, Reddit threads in your space, competitive comment sections, customer interviews and discovery calls, survey responses and reviews. You can get information about this stuff from right here. So, this is a random old video from one of my pages which is no longer active. You know, if I wanted to, I've got a post right here. I could just go through the comments, screenshot some of the comments that I care about or that I think are impactful, top comments, whatever. And then literally what you would do is start putting it all in here. And the reason I've done this is because having documents like this makes this dynamic. This brain is dynamic.

Then I could start feeding it with information. This could be competitive comments, this could be my comments, this could be literally anything from here. Reddit threads, newsletter replies, anything. But you know right here with this layer of audience we are focusing on these particular things. Okay honestly that easy. YouTube comments anything like and you just start pasting it in here. And obviously here you know I've got my own example who I'm looking for content creators coaches consultants mostly 25 to 45 etc.

This is just an example. What hurts posting consistently? So you should be able to then start be able to answer these questions. If you want to succeed online you need to be able to answer some of these eventually not right now or if you can even better. Now the next thing is voice. So voice brand isn't just visuals, it's also your voice. How do you sound? How do your scripts sound? How do your captions sound? How do your emails sound? How does anything that requires kind of words make you sound?

What goes in here? So recent captions again, newsletter intro. So you can crossuse different things in in these if they apply. So it will tell you uh where to find it. Last 10 Instagram captions, newsletter sense. So literally anything that kind of has words, it will be useful here. So, this is super important because it start to tell you words I use, words I don't use, the way you interact. Because when you're creating stuff in the future, whether it's a script, whether it's an idea for a newsletter, whether it's a product, you don't want to have a certain style on Instagram, and then you go on to your product and it's clearly written by AI.

Hello, this is a 7-day plan to lose weight, but online you're making jokes and stuff. So, this is super important. The next one is visual. So visual is the standard one that everyone is mostly when it comes to branding thinking about. Okay. So this is mood boards, Pinterest, love. This is where everyone goes. So you can in here put brands and creators who you visually admire, specific references, colors you've drawn to, you know, fonts, etc. You can just throw that all in here and the document or the brain will be able to reference this at any point. And this is super simple. I've shown this in videos before. You know, you can go on to websites like colorco etc. Fonts a thousand1 to get fonts. It's all there and you just throw them in here.

Honestly, just put them like there. You can go on Pinterest, type in Moody brand. You can see right here typed in moody brand. I could type in green brand. If I want to go with a specific green and then you can start getting kind of ideas from there, you know, different contrast, different things. And as you see us progress, you will see how well this works. The next one is offer. This one, some of you might not be offering something, might not be selling anything. That's fine. But normally you should be or you should be thinking about that. If you don't have anything right now, put some stuff that your competitors sell or that you think you could sell in the future. This is super important again because we're not doing any of this for fun. I mean, I do like it, but none of this is for fun.

This is business. This is social media. This is content creation. This is our job. So, we're doing this for a specific purpose. So, you want to put information like this in here. Okay? And remember, this is going to allow us to answer these questions. Okay, [music] these questions are going to come from this right here. So again, you know, offer. Boom. The last one is existing brand. So if you have existing things which you like, which you want to improve, etc.

Just to give context, again, you can put that into here. Okay. Now, of course, the one I'm going to provide in the vault is not going to have the examples. You would literally, as I've just done with the screenshots, just put stuff into here. You can even put document links from Google Drive, whatever you want into here. But these documents will be super important for you to work on. These are dynamic documents. They don't need to be perfect from day one. And I'm going to explain later why it's important to have these in separate rather than just one massive document.

Okay. So now you know the next step. We're going to go on to Claude. Go to projects. New project. Boom. And what you want to do is put in master brand brain. So you can see I've just created mine, but there is nothing in it. So, I'm going to press master brain. Now, here you have your project. Now, a project is super important because this keeps things condensed. And this is where you have a specific use case for your brand here. So, let's drop in our file. So, the files we've just kind of filled [music] in. Um, I'm going to just grab them and just literally put them into here. So, this is going to be our reference point. So, you can see right here, which is perfect. Now, we're going to take this further. So, the point of these is to build our pillars, which are going to be the pillars that hold this together. Now, this is the prompt that I'm going to add for now. I'm going to paste this in here. Nothing too complicated. I'm going to go back, press it again, and then I'm going to start a conversation. Now, what you want to do is start a new chat. And I'm going to paste this in. So, we're building pillar one, which is going to be the positioning. And I'm going to press enter. And then you will see how this is going to develop. Okay, perfect. So you can see what it's produced. So the narrative, it's not for creators, rules, who this is for, who this is not for, etc., etc. And it's already got a lot of stuff. So pilot one is on the page. Two things I'd flag before we move to voice.

What I'm going to do is what we're against section is too soft. Sharpen it. So it's done a really good job. What I'm going to do is this section in particular, I want it to get sharpened. And you know, this process here requires a little bit of back and forth just so that you're happy with it. But of course, it can get you somewhere really quickly. But it's important to read this and take some time with it. So I'm going to put this sharpen it. We're not against AI, etc. So you can see right here it's recreating it. Now essentially all you would do is you could put something like this and it would be this simple. Then I can just literally paste this document that it creates into my brand brain. You can do skills etc with all of this today.

I'm not going to cover that just to get the basics done. But if you want me to dive into coding skills etc. building something a bit more automatic let me know in the comments. So I've got this document. I would literally press download. Then I'm going to head back to brand master brain. Put that into there. And you can see that now that's there. Now in the same conversation, what you can do is paste this. So we're building a pillar to voice referencing the positioning document. This is a kind of the pillars all work in cohesion. So referencing the position document you just logged in. Make sure that this voice is consistent with the positioning. So this is why we're doing this because I want them to all be aligned. And I feel like a lot of the time, you know, when you're separating things, etc. In this case, it can make your brand conflict and actually cause confusion. Remember, we're doing all of this to be more decisive, to allow our decision-m once we have this system built to be quicker, sharper, less guessing. [music] So again, you can go back and forth with this, but what I would do is if there's a particular part you don't like, change it. Okay? But the reason again dynamic that we're doing one at a time and that you can save in the project because you can shift things anytime. If there's a visual change, if there's a change in your voice, etc., you can change it.

Okay. So, same thing again. So, I would press download and then I'm going to just what you can do is just go back again and literally throw that in there. Go back to here. Now, we're going to start heating this up. So, we're going to do the visual one, and you're just going to go through this one. With the visual one, I'm going to show you something different as well. We're going to do this, but then I'm going to actually get it to create me like a branding visual. This one's slightly different than others as well because I like to have like visual kind of referencing documents as well which are visual because it's visual. Okay, so I've got my glasses on so you know things are getting serious. So we've just done the visual one and you can see that it's given me the brand uh the document again but for this one it's also given me this brand board right here. So if I press that you can see it pops up. It's given me this brand board and if I press it it's essentially creates this kind of board for me which again is useful for a visual referencing point. So, it has composition principles, you know, etc., etc. We did cover this in the visual brain in a previous video of mine, but this is more of an overall one, okay? And you can change this at any point, you know, you can use Canva to edit it, etc., using magic layers. There's so many things you can do, but this is a useful aspect of the visual. Once we did the visual, we then move to the story, which is the final piece of our pillar, which boom, we get all of that. Once that's done, you ask for the dock. Once again, you get it. Once you get that, then you have all your four pillars in four different documents which are dynamic. You can edit at any point and you just re-upload them onto your project. Now I asked for it to confirm the names, summarize each one at each sentence so that I can make sure that it's correct what you know I've done. Tell me what the master brand can now do that it couldn't before. So it's given me you know the right information for each one. What the brain references from now on, positioning, voice, visual identity, you know, does this lead with a direct a declaratory speak to one person, refuse to hedge, etc. What the brain can do. Every prompt started from zero. Every caption had to be reexlained. Every thumbnail had to be rebriefed. Every video idea had to be defended on the spot. The brand was implicit, held in your head, scattered across documents, inconsistent across surfaces. Now I'm able to, you know, push back on weak directions. Hold consistency across different surfaces, translate between layers. It's changed a lot of things. Give me three YouTube. I went straight into it. give me three YouTube concepts for my next YouTube video and some Instagram content and boom posting daily killed my content the enemy it aims at the angle the opener etc. Obviously you know this is completely different video you know content but the point is it's now referencing this okay and with this you can use this to do so much in terms of obviously you can have different projects which are carousel focused etc but you can create a master brand document which you can then take to other chats but you always want to maybe cross align you know your final scripts your final stuff with here just for alignment just for updates this is how you have a system so this is your command center for branding and you can see everything is on brand right here again Instagram content each Instagram post boom posting daily kill my business you know it's even giving me the kind of brand guidelines as well and of course if I wanted to create carousels with this the exact same thing it's all here you know to be honest to automate something as well this makes things so much easier because then you're automating your voice positioning visuals etc okay here is some advice that I want you to really pay attention to so most people fill in the identity and the audience, then write two vague lines about the voice. Vague rules will give you generic outputs every time.

Okay? Now, I'm not going to tell you to go back and write some essays, but spend a bit of time doing it. And something that I suggest is sometimes when doing your prompts, you know, creating brains, different things like that, just grab a notepad and pen and step away from the computer, from the phone, and just write your ideas. Okay? Spend a few minutes with your thoughts. take a picture of it, then add it to your AI and you've got a whole different kind of real input to that which will change your second list and you know the the generic outputs that will happen. Okay, next thing is not everything needs to be a skill. A lot of information online about Claude, about this, about that is you can turn this into a skill. You can use co-work for this, you can do guys, you know, just keep things simple, okay?

Like in reality, when you're in a workflow, you're not going to be doing skill skill uh skill like you know there's going to be a time and place for everything. And don't try to just build this overefficient system because just by you using AI, just by you understanding, just by you building these workflows, you will start to understand things. Okay? So don't overengineer, overengineer things. Okay? A month of content is not a month of posting. You have 30 pieces sat in front of you. That does not mean you post 30 times. It means you finally get to choose what goes out. Something with social media is, you know, for me personally, something that I really disliked about being in the social media space is a lot of the advice tells you, you know, post as much as possible. You know, you need to be posting four times a day. You need to be posting five times a day. Like guys, in reality, it's not like that. Like on my Instagram, for example, I post like three, four times a week. And for me, I've realized that that's sustainable. That's how often I want to post. And it just works super well for me. and I'm able to grow that way. All of this advice, you know, telling you that you need to post every day and all like, you know, push everything to the limit is not true because there's great creators who post once a week and they grow tons. Okay?

What we want to focus on is quality. when we're using AI. So, in this case, for example, now we're going to be able to have a range of content and think, okay, if I'm going to post four times a week or three times a week and I've got 30 posts, that means I can pick the best and I'm going to go with those. I'm going to test. So, you see things change. These three things will make a big difference. Okay? So, you have a claude that knows your brand, which is extremely important because every social media profile is essentially a brand, but you don't have anything made yet.

Well, guess what? We're about to make something. Some carousels, images, and videos. Let's get into it. Okay, so now it's time for us to start building our system. Now, one of the things with carousels, which are the swipe posts on social media, is with image generation in the past, it's been difficult to get that consistency from post to post. And you can see here that I've been able to build entire post sequences. So you can see this is you know post one, two, you can see right here, three, four, all in the same format. And if I show you again here, you can see the same thing. And I've been able to do that using a particular prompt style called JSON prompting. And this is an important aspect of our system. And I need you to understand. So you can see here, right here, the prompt style. Now, let me show you how we're going to do this. Now, we're going to jump over to Claude. So I'm using Claude. Claude is my go-to. Now I'm in my vault. I'm going to give you the skill so that you can have your JSON prompt in your Claude at all times. The exact same thing with chat GBT. So I'll also add a chat GBT version in there if you use chat GBT. So what you want to do to install it is go to here first. Go to settings and make sure that you have capabilities that you have this turned on. The next thing you want to do is go to customize. Here is where your skills and connectors live.

What I want you to do here is press plus then press upload skill. And there you would drag the file in there and follow the steps and simply upload it. What this will do now is any time that you type, you know, turn this into a JSON prompt. And you'll see later on in the system, give turn this into a JSON prompt um or you know, give me a a prompt for nano banana for chajd image. it will automatically to create the prompt using this as a reference point.

So it will create it in this JSON kind of way so that your prompts are always kind of these longer very high information you know exactly how kind of AI wants the prompts to be and this is going to make your life so so much easier. So I deserve a like and a subscribe for that. Um but yeah so all you need to do is follow those steps. The steps will be in the vault and you'll be able to do that. Now, we're going to create this project which is going to allow us to basically get our carousels in a matter of seconds. So, I've already created one an hour ago.

You would literally just press new project, type in like carousel generator, whatever. Create the project. So, I'm going to create it now quickly. And you can see here, so instructions plus, and you' paste the instructions which I will provide in my vault. And so, let's see here. right here. You can see all of the instructions are right there. And now I can show you. So yeah, that's basically it. And obviously you can use different models, test it around. Um, now I'm going to show you how I've been kind of interacting with them. So you've seen me create a bunch of stuff here. So yeah, so let's start with this one. So what you want to do is now of course if you give your projects more about branding, etc. is going to be better. But for the purpose of this video, I'm using reference images from Pinterest, etc. to provide that context.

But if you have like the right branding, you know, the right examples yourself, then you can do that for your project. So if we go here to the motive, let's go to the Nike one. So for example, what I did was went over here to Pinterest and typed in what did I type in like um let's see what did I type in social media. social media post. So, social media post. And you can see that there's a bunch of different I was kind of just getting inspiration and I grabbed this one here.

Now, obviously, you want to be more specific, you know, or for example, if you find something on Instagram that you like, you know, like the design of, etc., you can grab that. So, for the purpose of this video, I just grabbed something from here. And then going back to here, I put in my hat. So, where is my hat? So, I have this Jordan hat right here. And then I was thinking, you know, what should I make a carousel about? Let me do a Jordan hat. So I took a picture of Jordan hat and I want to create a carousel for my Nike Jordan hat in a similar visual style to the attached reference. So these are my two visual points. The first thing this project will do is a visual tear down of your reference. So you can see right here portrait frames etc etc. Carousel concept. It will start then designing this carousel concept. So you can see hook the only cap you need deep black background blah blah blah context heritage middle beat etc. And then it will say ready for step two say run the skill to turn these slides into Jason prompts run the skill and turn these into etc. Now what you want to do is say individually. So it did it all in one go for me. Can you share them with me individually? And you will start getting all of these prompts like this. And now you have a carousel system. And you can see right here, if I copy this, go to here. Now, something to pay attention to on Trabt image 2 is you have different variations. So, I'm actually just going to run this. So, we got low, medium, and high. So, obviously, the higher the model you use, etc., the more credits and stuff you're going to use. What I recommend doing is, you know, if you want to start testing and stuff, play around with low and medium so you can test and get kind of a visual reference and then you can even go back to Claude and to, you know, in terms of resolution, go 1K or 2K. You don't need to go to 4K for the purpose of this video. You know, I'm recording a YouTube video which is seen by a few people. So, I try to export in, you know, higher settings. But essentially, then you have all the aspect ratio. So, if you're doing a thumbnail, you can do, you know, 21 or 16 this one. Then you have the different for story it would be 9 by 16.

So you'd have it all here. This batch size means how many you want to generate a time. So you can see I always do four just you know because I want to and want to see as many as possible. But if you were limited on choice you know you could do two one at a time to keep it really concise. But honestly once like there's not really much difference between what I'm generating you know honestly like look at this one. Once I have the right system built you know which we've already started building.

You could literally bring this down to one. You know, have this on 2K, have this on low or medium, and your, you know, generations would cost way less. So, there are ways to go around this. And yeah, I just love the feel of using Hicksfield like this. It's just so much easier. You know, I just press an image, for example. I can see my prompt. I can see the model I used. I can see kind of the settings. I can press download. I can, you know, press reference. You know, I can press upscale enhancer. You know, there's just so many different things I can do with this all in one place and it just makes my life so much easier. So, let's just generate this right now. So, 3x4 image 2. And honestly, it's that simple. And what you would do is, so I'm going back to here is you would just copy, paste, generate. Go back, copy, paste, generate, and then you would have your full carousel. Now, of course, there are going to be ways to automate this, you know, to make this even smoother.

Although I do think this is pretty smooth because honestly this once you have it built it takes a matter of seconds. Now I did create some other chats as you can see right here. So to test things out properly, you can see I was playing around with some motivational content. So if I go here and type in motivational sports content, you've seen this all around social media. You know these kind of like this, like that. And these are not easy to make, you know, they take some time. And I really wanted to experiment with using Chad GBT for this. And it turns out it did a really good job. Like if I look at this one right here, you know, the text looks clean. And to be honest, I didn't give it much context. So if I go to motivational, you know, I put these three reference images here. I want to make a carousel with a design inspired from the attached, which is motivational carousel. Tell people like I could be way more specific. I could say particular font. I could, you know, as I said, I could give it more brand references.

And then if I did want to include, you know, famous people, etc., similar to how these guys do it, then obviously I'd have to add the reference images because it won't just pluck them out of thin air. But if you want to be more, you know, not have a particular kind of uh famous person, you know, then it can easily generate that for you. And it was able to do that, you know, as you can see kind of here, you know, with these images. And it looks ultra realistic.

So, but you know this honestly has really impressed me. You know, there are a few glitches like this one. You know, Machamp hands. Um, is it Machamp? Yes, it is Machamp. And here. Yeah. Well, just that one really. But you can see like how good the text comes out. Like there's tiny bits of overlap here, etc. And how like honestly how clean does that look? So, and this is just me testing for a few hours. Like if I was to build a whole thing about this, it would be crazy. Like you know production value on social media is super important. You know in this age of AI where anything is basically possible when your text when your carousels are just you know get up in black and you know it's just so simple and you're starting from scratch it's going to be hard to grow. So this allows you to be creative and I want you to be creative. Okay, this was one I had already kind of created before and you can see this one here. So, this one I actually got from an Instagram post and just referenced it, but I wanted to test its kind of capabilities with text. Gray with Alex one out of seven protein breakfast and it just look it just came out so clean in terms of composition, everything like the text, cottage cheese, peach bowl, etc.

You know, if you have a website, if you have a book, if you have a YouTube video, if you have anything you want to add information to, it can digest that and turn it into a carousel for you. I mean, you know, what what more can you want really? So it's done an incredible job with the overnight oats jar mega head fiber richch 25g protein you know and with this system that we've built here you know if you go and see you know love this template okay so this one I actually asked for it to give me some ideas so you can see okay closest to the reference 5minute lunches high protein snacks under 200 calories one pan dinners make ahead meal prep you know seasonal cocktails quick workouts by body part and then I picked okay and then it actually asked me which direction do you want to run with one pandas as boom and it just started to build it for me. So slide one, you know, this is all of that, etc., etc. These are the slides. And then I would just simply run this and I get the prompts.

Paste them here and I have my carousel without needing to, you know, go on to without needing to go onto, you know, Canva, paying a designer, anything like that. Right now it's taken a bit longer as it's still very early in terms of it's just been released and I'm probably doing it on a high setting but it makes life so so much easier and I think you know you can see some of the stuff I've been practicing here you know even Necrono you know look at how clean and that kind of glass etc transparency here you know it's come out amazingly and a lot of the time before in image generators it really struggled with that carousels have been a total game changer for me over the last few months. And after obsessing over them, I've been able to get some insane results. And you can see right here, 96,000 likes, over 130,000 shares, and you know, I've been able to build something where it's my brand. I'm getting tons of messages about it. And the beauty of all of this is that this is leveraging the power of AI. So, I'm able to do these in a matter of minutes once I have this system set up. Now, this has taken me tons of time, tons of work, and after getting so many messages about this, I've decided to put this into an engine that you can buy now. And the link is in the description.

But this is just going through the website. So, for anyone who is interested using this method, I've been able to save a ton of money because I know longer pay designers, you know, $50 to $100 per carousel, but also a ton of time because once you install this system, you literally go to it and it starts creating those carousels. Now you can see right here, you know, these are some of the carousels I've been able to create. Carousels are the number one lead generation system that exists out there in terms of time to lead. Okay, real long form content is obviously amazing, but takes way more time. Le carousels are insane for lead generation. You can see the amount of saves that I get. It's it's incredible.

Now, the website will go through everything you get from a week of content in under an hour once the system installed and optimized. Never open a blank page again. We have an ideation system which whether you have no idea, whether you have a old video, whether you have something else to inspire it, you can get ideas from virtually anything or what you already have. You never write the prompts. It's all set up because this is my system. A feed that looks like one brand content nobody can copy saves that turn into DMs. The full kind of modules and everything is available on the website for you to look at. You know, I want people who are serious to actually invest into this.

Then you have all the bonus resources that that you get as well. So 40 plus written CTAs sorted by goal carousel breakdowns. This is for those who think carousels could have a massive impact on their social media growth business because this has changed the game for me. The link is in the description. All the details are there. This is a founders price right now. So it will go up in price in the future. Anyone who's thinking, "Oh, this is available on YouTube." It's not because no one gets results like these using this system.

Plus, you might get snippets here or there from my videos. But this particular, it's not a course. It's an engine. So, by the end, you will be installing this engine step by step with me so that you can create this yourself because this is the same engine that I use to create my carousels. Uh, any questions, feel free to reach out on Instagram. But yeah, the link is in the description. Do not sleep on carousels. For us to get B-roll or video AI video that actually looks good, we need to actually spend some time building a system. And the first step of this is our locking our vibe. Now, when it comes to video, there are six important elements that we're going to focus on.

And I'm going to give you a cheat sheet. You're going to run with me. So, you can pause the video, download this, and run through it with me right now. Makes all the difference. So, light, color grade, film, stock, lens, movement, composition. These are not complicated. I'm about to go through it. Let's look at light. You're watching a video right me. You see me in the corner right there. If I move this, you'll see that there is less light on. I add more light. I put the brightness up. It makes a big difference. I turn the lights off, etc. Color and grade. How does it look?

Film stock lens. Now, here I've got a few examples to kind of show you this, but you can see right here. So, light direction. Where is it coming from? If the light was coming from there, this would look completely different. If it's hard, soft again it would look different. Now let's look at this. So blue hour photography. Okay. So this is kind of your lighting because the person is taking these photos in that light. So blue light you can see what does it look like? Blue. [laughter] If I look at golden hour photography which is just before sunset you can see it's completely different. And if I put that into my prompt again it makes a difference. What we're building is a lock string here for our prompts. And you're going to do that with me right now. Again let's take this further. So you can see color and grade. We've kind of gone through that. Colorful is not a kind of grading or a prompt or information that actually is useful. If I go to here, which is a Kodak Portra 400, you can see the style of shots that you get. And you can see kind of the consistency around them, the vibe.

Remember, we're building a vibe. Um, and you can see if I go to nostalgic summer photography, again, the vibe. If I go to Mediterranean film aesthetic, again, it's a different vibe. Okay? Okay. And you can see how it kind of the the colors the which ones pop, which ones don't. This is not too complicated. Okay. So, texture and film stock, the strongest single lock. This is a magic lever. A named stock forces the same grain contrast every time, which is what holds a hold library. Okay. So, you can see here how an example looks string, which I'm actually going to use in the video. And I'll show you actually the difference. If I remove this and add something else, the difference that will come out. Now again what I would suggest you doing is downloading this putting this into um claude and actually asking it to go through it with you and give you suggestions based on you know your situation but it's worth doing research.

So for example if I like a particular film so call me by your neighbor cinematography you can see here the cinema the photography you know if I go to this one it's different to to that right and if I go to this one it's different because they all have their independent styles and you can get inspiration from anywhere to build that lock for you. Remember, this is based on these six things and will make all the difference. Simply download this, fill it out, and you'll get something like this. And then you have that locked. But we're going to take this further to the next level right now and actually work with the script to take this to level two. If you want me to dive deeper into building your vibe, the visuals, you know, building a true brand with all of this kind of for video, again, just let me know in the comments something about visuals, vibe, whatever.

Okay. So, this is where we take things to another level. Okay. And this is where Claude becomes our brain. So, consistent is enough. So, we have our kind of lock vibe. Yeah. But same look, same shot, but every shot then becomes the same, right, on video. Like I've tested it where every shot just looks good, but then is like literally the same. So, again, it just makes you fall asleep. Whereas, if we have the same look but different shots, different kind of energy to it, it makes a massive difference. And this is where we take the story director and take it to another level. Now again, this is part of the freebie. All we need to do is go down to part two, story director, and you can see everything right there. But let's jump into this right now and show you what this is all about. So what this does is allows you to change the shot every time. So rather than a wide rather than having like every shot just wide angle, wide angle, wide angle, some are going to be wide, then suddenly it'll be close, then suddenly low angle, looking up, tracking, aerial. This builds a professional highquality sequence that will tell your script in a completely different way and it's not complicated once you have this locked in. Let's do that right now for you. So, what you want to do is once you have your look string done, so this section right here, you want to paste your script and then run this prompt right here. So, paste your look string, paste the prompt, and you can save this forever. But what we want to focus on in this is basically you have a feeling. Okay? When we're creating content, we're trying to get the audience to interact with us or to feel something they want. And we can do that through energy. You know, what kind of energy are we giving off in this video? Is it is it dark? Is it deep? You know, because people are going to feel that way where it's vibrant, you know, there's different aspects, nostalgia, etc. It's going to make all the difference. Again, shot type. All of this will lead to your prompt. This makes all the difference. So, you can see right here, feeling what a viewer should feel. read under their motion.

So, I've done that exactly right here. And again, you are my director. I'll give you my script and my locked visual. And you can build a skill for this. You can build a project. Super easy. If you want to know more about skills, watch this video right here. But again, you can see, so I've put my script right here. The day starts before the noise. Espresso fast and bitter. The way they make it here. Then the road that hangs off the cliffs cliffs all the way down to the water. And boom. What it starts to do is then understand, okay, what's the feeling here? So, at the beginning, it's anticipation, stillness, energy, low, shot type, wide, establishing. So, it's an establishing shot. There's the prompt. Boom. And it just does that for every single one. And once you have this in flow, you have your locked, you have this, then you can start to generate content, which is going to make all the difference. And you can do it in minutes because you have the two systems or the complete system to allow you to do that.

Let's jump back into seed dons so you can see the power of this in action. Okay, so we've got our prompts right here. Again, I'll add some extra to the bottom of this, but you can see there's pointers and everything right here. But essentially, we've got this information. Now, it's time to bring it together and start creating it for our video. We're going to generate this in seedance 2.0. But instead of me doing it right here, what we're going to do is use the Claude MCP. So, we can actually connect Hickfield to Claude, which means that I don't need to go to this Hickfield right here. And I could do it all within clude claude and use any model any time. So right here you can see I've kind of prepped this. I'm generating b-roll with sea dance 2.0 etc etc. I'll share all of this with you. I've put my prompts and you can see I've got my content. Okay.

So for the first one I did I went with the Kodak Portra 400. Now because for this video I wanted to do a POV angle. So for example what I mean by point of view which is I'm the influencer. I'm traveling sharing a quick kind of uh information about my trip. But then I realized, you know, from these clips that they weren't looking like real enough. I mean, they look super high quality, but not real enough, like as in like an influencer potentially wouldn't be shooting that, would they? They wouldn't be rolling around with an 8K camera. This one looked pretty good. And you can see seed dance is by no means like struggling or anything. Like, it followed my prompt to the tea. And the quality is immense. Immense like compared to a few months ago with other models. Like look at this. It's insane.

But the difference was I removed that Kodak part and and what I decided to do was change it to an iPhone. So what I wanted to do is you know what? I'm creating a POV for me. So we're going to change this to an iPhone and keep the rest the same. And suddenly it was completely different. So you can see at the beginning of the video I have this B-roll of me walking or whatever. You know, you don't need to use all 8 seconds, but boom, I could use this. It tells the story. I've got the caption here. I've just been talking and it changes. Again, look at this. Just this image right here looks insanely real and way better. Again, I can use it for a few seconds, generate more wherever I want, but it starts to build this story.

And again, it's all in in kind of this this flow of color and following my uh kind of lock. Again, following it. And you can see here, same thing. Whereas before, again, it's just too much in terms of professional. It's got that lighting. It's got that, you know, vibe. It looks insane. But for me as an influencer for POV, it it needs to look a lot better than that. So you can see here again, you know, this is way more realistic. You know, it's it's got kind of that that drop there for a moment, you know, and you don't need to use all six sec like all 8 seconds. I could just boom, leave that right there. 8 seconds and it's done. And then that's like a few seconds. That's probably like 2 3 seconds and it's done. And that's what adds the vibe to your video. Again, for the sec the next shot, you could see potentially I was showing, you know, people's um table. Um yeah, you know, but it's but again I was able to generate this in one go. Okay, like in one single prompt it was able to generate all of this and that's the massive difference here. Again, you can see, you know, it's it's it's just built all of them. So I don't think that's part of it, but you can see the difference it makes. Like this looks insanely real. Okay. Um you know, look at that zoom even right there. Like a small like real kind of live zoom. And this looks incredible how real that looks. like when 2.5 comes out, I'm definitely making a video because if it gets better than this, I don't know how.

But you can see, look at that. Insane. Um, and you know, for me as an influencer, if I was struggling to, for example, you know, I had a deal with a company or something and I wanted to, you know, and I was missing some good shots. Boom. I can grab the shots right now. If I was a motivational speaker, if I was a nutritionist, it doesn't matter who I am. I can now get content that actually matches my video, tells a story is unique and I can build it in a matter of seconds once you have the system in place and Hicksfield is able to generate this all within Claude using the MCP.

So, this is an absolute game changer. The link is in my description because again, when a new model comes out, we want to test it. We want to use that for our B-roll and again we'll have access to it immediately instead of having all of these different ones to sign up to. Now, let's say you were using yourself for this. So, for example, if you wanted to add yourself in your B-roll, how would you do that? Well, let me know in the comments if you want me to create one where you actually use people in the video or like even yourself because that is a bit harder, but I can definitely do that as a follow-up. Okay, so you have work that looks like yours, but you don't have a way to stop repeating yourself. So, now it's time to teach it a job once and never explain it again.

Now, how to activate a skill. So, let's say I have a script for a video. Okay. Now, we know how important hooks are. Typically, let's say that there are six different different variations of hooks. Of course, I can make a whole video about hooks, but let's say there are six variations. So, contrarian, patent interrupt, identity call out, curiosity gap, etc. Stat shock, you know. But what we want to do is I've got my script here. Here's a video on that script. I need to, you know, brainstorm some more hooks quickly. Now, I'm going to just put in hooks. And boom. It already knows my hook style, you know, the way I've told it to, you know, create hooks, what I'm looking for. So, I don't need to do much apart from put slash and hook. Now, of course, the beauty of this is that I could do this in any chat. So, I could be in another chat, which I'm about to show you later, which is kind of my video chat. Once I've done the videos, etc., I could be like, "Okay, let's just work on the hooks now." and I just go boom and it starts to create hooks based on what I'm working with. So essentially instead of me thinking about prompts and having these prompts saved everywhere, I have it saved in my skills folder. Now you can see right here, boom, it's given me 10 different hooks immediately. Best fits the script six and nine. So one claude feature cut my content week from 50 hours to 20 statshock. Boom. And that's how simple it can be. Now in terms of how to install it, it's so easy. All you do is go to customize on your tab and it will bring up this. You go to plus right here and you can see you can browse skills. So other skills or you can create skills. You can write skill instructions or upload a skill or create with claude. Of course, normally I do write skill instructions and then put you know as I mentioned the kind of format right here. What you can also do is and I will it will be in my vault is the skills that I've created. I will give them to you all and you can just drag them in here and then you have the skill right there. So skills are super easy to create. Let's jump over to the next skill because this is where things the magic starts to happen.

Okay, now this is where things start to get spicy. And so now I'm about to show you how to do it with images and video. And this is where things really take go up to another level. So you can see right here, this is my image generation skill. And in this chat right here is where I have it. So you know, as again, I've made new chats for to kind of showcase these skills. But normally, let's say I've been, you know, have a a complex chat or a chat with multiple different scripts, different things. A skill is going to just quickly come in and do the task it needs to do. In this case, I've put a script here for a page I have. And then I've put my prompt, right? Or my skill beats image. Boom.

And essentially, it understands my branding already because that's kind of built into the skill. But you and you can easily edit this. So, for example, what you would do is, you know, just edit it. But before we jump into that, I want to show you something. So you can see that I've been able to generate these images within Claude using Chad GBT image too. And that's because Hicksfield have just released this MC Higfield MCP, which allows you to connect Hicksfield to Claude, Plexity, etc. And it's a total game changer because I don't need to go from Hicksfield to Claude prompt to Hicksfield. Instead, I'm doing it all in one chat and it literally saves at least 50% of your time and it's so easy to do once you have Higsfield. Link will be in the description. All you do is go to settings, connectors, press add custom connector, and the instructions are right here. So, OpenClord settings, add custom connector, connector, sign in, and literally you have it in the chat.

And you can see right here how it works. So, I've put in my script, and then I've put B image, and it's come up with six or seven different kind of images. Now, the reason you would use this is, you know, it's super important to use images for B-roll, you know, to help explain, you know, once you're creating a real, you know, let's say you're in the educational space for gardening, you know, you want to suddenly pop up a, you know, dandelion or something, I don't know, like you could just create that in a matter of seconds from your script on, you know, Claude using Hicksfield. You know, this is super useful. It just makes life easier. We know content creation is not easy, so why not try to make it a bit easier? So, and you can see for the videos which I'm about to show you, it's very similar. So, going back to here, let's see what's actually created. And this the beauty of this is all created with one singular prompt.

And it's come out really good. So, this is more of a kind of stoic theme clean using chat GBT chat GBT image 2 right here. Now with the skills at any time you can just go to your im your skill and let's say you know so I've got some specific things in here like for example you need to use hickfield image 2 when you're creating the images but let's say nano banana 50 comes out all you would do is go here and change this to nanobanana 20 you know whatever you make those changes and the skill gets updated and the workflow remains the same it remains super you know good with here I've put some branding details just for the purpose of this video, but again, if you had more branding visuals, etc., you'd put them all here and it would be there forever. So, it makes your workflow for this specific use case so so useful. And again, this is all saved to Higsfield. So, you can see the images are all here. You know, if you don't need to come here, honestly, I barely come here now. I've just been using it in MC in in Claude. But, you know, it's all here if you wanted to play around with it now. And obviously, if you wanted to do low quality size, etc., You can do that all within Claude.

Now, of course, this can all be automated, which takes us to another thing as well. If you want me to make a video about automation, you know, trying to do even more with this, let me know in the comments. Now, what do we do to take this even further? That would be to do videos as well. So, with videos, you know, again, hero moments, great for personal brands, YouTubers, businesses. You could do this with motion graphics, you could do this with anything. And again, I put the same um prompt that I put here, but what I did was I wanted it to do the images first using my image kind of generation skill and then do the video generation skill, which I'm again going to show you right here very quickly. Again, very similar. Um then I go to here and let's see what it's actually come up with. So it did all the images.

Boom, boom, boom. Then I thought, you know, let me try something a bit more fast-paced. So we did the images again again again and let's scroll down and have a look. So you can see right here these are the videos. So like wow you know one of the things as well this is actually really good at prompting. So this like having hicksfield within Claude also makes your prompting that much better as well. Um look at that. And then you know obviously I can take this further start adding text etc. And you can do some auto editing as well. Again if you want that you know taking v if you want me to make more videos about like videos using claude etc. Again let me know. But essentially look I have a whole sequence of videos from one singular prompt. You can see once I did the images it auto started to do the videos again all here and all super useful. There's no excuses to like not make content. That's good.

Again, if you're in a situation where you were making a YouTube video and you wanted to make a few, you know, images for it, it could be the same. Obviously, you'd make a change, you know, where this would be 16 by9, it'd be designed for YouTube, etc. You know, it might be slightly longer in duration. And you just make those edits. It's honestly that simple. Okay, so this next one or next two is honestly my favorite and the biggest wow. So, you can see over the last few months on my YouTube channel, I've changed my branding, the way I do thumbnails. I now make themelves and it's working really well for me. Now, look at this. So, I've been able to create a skill for my thumbnail. So, I've been a So, essentially what I did here was I grabbed my four, you know, one of four of my latest thumbnails, which have performed pretty well. And you could do this for basically anything for this particular skill right here.

And let's say I've got a video idea. So, you know, video idea experiment I'm thinking is doing like how to create 30 days of content in like 30 minutes using just a claw chat. And just with this skill and my idea right here or with the title, it's able to do do a style profile in terms of like colors, typography, you know, etc., etc. Then it's able to like, you know, identify that we need like keywords or whatever in the in the in the thumbnail. So, you know, it wants it wants to go with 30 days. From there I say 30 days is good and it will generate a thumbnail for this title based on these. So let's have a look. And with that it generated this 30 days face it created new carousels or new images. Okay. So you can see here doesn't let me. [snorts] You can see here all these images, none are the like the one I've just kind of shown you. Yeah, it's created its own carousel images here. Now, obviously, there is an issue potentially here with the shoulder, but having it in front isn't the worst thing. 30 days, etc. IG logo right there. All because of me using a skill.

So, look at how much time and I used to pay $200 per thumbnail. Damn. Now, generating now, same beat is 5 minutes, two prompts, etc. Now the next one is the face lock. When you're creating content which you know potentially has your face or a human face with AI there can be issues with you know the generation. So luckily for me you know I've been doing this for a while my prompting and you know my systems are built so it doesn't really happen. Um but it could happen where you do this and then suddenly you look like you're a rhino or a lion or someone completely different. And I built a skill and this is where I'm also showing you how skills can stack on top of each other where I do a face lock. So for example, if I wanted it to regenerate but this time for it to make sure that the face is locked and essentially this one you can see just preserves my image at the maximum capability. So it understands that it cannot change this and it needs to redo the thumbnail. So you can see here rerunning with identity preservation language injected. So a higher amount of identity preservation language into the prompt into this generation and then boom it comes out even better. So in this case it actually recreated some of the carousels and even added me or a part of me to one of them.

So you can see there there you know so and it looks super clean. Even changed this logo etc as well. So, you know, simply from me doing that, you know, literally two skills, I'm able to create a new thumbnail for a YouTube video in a matter of minutes. Like, this is unbelievable. And again, you know, if I wanted to add further skills where I add variations of, you know, my t-shirt, I could do that. So, then I would be like, you know, slashvariations. So, on YouTube, you can have ABC testing of thumbnails. So, for example, if I have a final thumbnail here, I'm happy with this. You know what? Let's do some variations where 30 is in orange, yellow, different colors, you know, whatever you build around your kind of flow.

Okay, so before we get to should you build it and how to build it, let's look at my final one, which is a caption skill. Now, this is a super interesting or simple one, but essentially this builds my captions for me. And you can see right here it's built my caption with already knowing that it has to do like a um many chat kind of message to kind of have for the automations. This again is super useful because if I'm doing a flow where I'm creating content and you know suddenly I'm like oh damn I need a caption. I can just go to you know IG captions and it will create the caption based on how I've built it. So if I scroll down you can see right here the caption is built in the way that I want. Um, so this is super useful, okay?

Because I can literally do anything. Be in any chat. You know, suddenly if I want to make a quick Instagram video, I could just put in my idea, which is like this. You know, this one wasn't necessarily for me, but and I get the caption. So again, you know, this is just super useful. Now, should you build a skill? You might be wondering. And for what? Well, let me answer that. So this is important when you have a recurring task. So when you have a task that you know you do pretty often on claude this is when you should think okay I need a skill for this you know if it's structured it has a fixed shape every time same input same type you know if it can be handed off so if it's you know suddenly go and cook me dinner you can't do a skill for that but if it's something that you can give to Claude to just quickly boom and save that's worth doing so if it's recurring structuring structured it makes a massive difference you know if it passes All three of these you can build a skill passes one or two.

I would say keep it as a prompt. You need to really be able to, you know, yeah, don't build skills for one-off creative writing task where each input changes the output entirely. Tasks with no clear output format. Okay? So, for example, you know, let's say um you know, for these videos, like I have a specific style of content that I'm making for this page. you know the the the difference is going to be each time it will be like a different scene different topics but ultimately the output is going to be a similar format the branding etc etc and it's video so when things are like that recurring it's worth doing a skill and you can have loads of different skills so where do you start let's say you were doing a personal brand you could have a hook generator caption writer in your voice comment reply drafter YouTube titles thumbnails description chapter writer course creator lesson outline builder email sequence you're after sales page writer business client on boarding proposal template brand tone checkup for delegated work what to avoid vague descriptions asking for confirmation trying to do too much remember don't try to do too much with these because you can stack them okay now if you want me to make another video about skills where I go even deeper into them actually building them you know some more let me know because I know skills are super important and for me I'm actively using them more and more okay you do not want to sleep on skills. Even if you have just a few, it's worth doing, okay?

Because it's all about efficiency. For us as creators or on social media, our focus or output needs to be on creativity. Okay? So the tasks which are repetitive, which we've been creative once built a system for, those can be turned into skills because Claude understands and can repeat that over and over again. Your effort needs to be more an ideation or things that require kind of this fresh creative burst. This is how you do skills for social media or for content creators.

Before I show you these 17 unmissable skills, we're going to start off with me giving you the rundown. So, skills are reusable tools that save you hours every single week. By the end of this video, you will know how to build skills, how to use my skills, and it will change your entire workflow. So you build it once, you set it up in minutes and it runs forever and it's triggered forever. So one word and it will trigger and start and it's literally saved me so much time. Now to install skills is super simple. You go here to your Claude customize, press skills and then you have three different options. So you can browse skills, you can create with Claude, write skill instructions or upload skills. So the skills I give you which will be available in my vault in the description of this video for free.

I deserve a like. You just literally come here, drag the file into uploaded skill and it's ready to go. You're going to see how skills connect within chats to build these systems that make my life so much easier as a content creator. Let's jump into it. Okay, now I've split this video up into four sections. So, we have the universal section which are universal skills for any content creator, social media people. Then we have some which are specific to Instagram, to YouTube, and then to building systems and bonuses. So trust me, you do not want to miss this as you will learn how you can create them yourself, how they actually work in a system and you will be prompted. So this will trigger your mind to start thinking, you know what, I could create a skill for this in your workflow, a skill for this, changing your life.

This is Jordan Rivera. Now, they are a fitness coach. They're in this specific niche. They have this audience. They have this goal of 300 paid members, £49 a month. coaching app this quarter, etc. So, I've created this profile of this creator, this social media account, just so that we can have this consistency throughout the video. And you can see as I built this system, but it doesn't matter if you're faceless, personal, brand, business, whatever. This is all going to be applicable to you. I'm just having this specific person so that we have consistency and you can see it in action. Now, let's jump to Universal section one.

Okay, so now we're going to start with the universal skills and these are extremely important. The first one is the goal lock. So locks one golem runs everything you make through it. So whenever you start a session of shiny new ideas, this is going to keep you on track. Let me give you an example right here. So you can see here I've got my goal lock and based on Jordan, I've created this primary goal. So the first thing you would do with this skill once installed is goal lock and then put in your kind of goal. So primary goal, what who I want to attract, my positioning, etc. It doesn't need to be like this.

Everything is in my vault, but you could just literally put any goal. So if your goal is to get 10,000 followers, you know, I want to attract this type of clientele, whatever, put that in, lock it, and it will say goal is locked and set. So you can see that it's kind of done that. Then what will happen is in any chat going forward, if I have an idea, you know, with social media, there's basically endless ideas, shiny object syndrome. Should I do this? let me think of this, let me try this. So anytime you have anything in any chat or you suddenly start d you know going in a different path, you can just literally go go lock and it will double check whether this idea or the path you're going down actually matches the goal that you've set right there. So for example, I want to make a trending reel on 75 hard challenge. It's blowing up right now. Everyone's doing it. Boom.

Goal check 300 paid members by the end of the quarter. What you brought this is it on goal? No, because the topic is one flip but the topic is one flip away from a strong yes. So what it will do is actually tell you that you know the views aren't the goal but it can also give you a fix on how to make it more worthwhile to actually get to this point. So this is extremely important. You know I run this in any chat that I have where I'm suddenly going off track or something like that and boom it will help me realign my vision. This is an this is an extremely important one to use when using AI. No matter who you are, hooks, hooks, hooks. Everyone is always talking about hooks. But let me introduce you to something. There is something called the climax. A climax is when you're watching a movie and the superhero kills the villain. That's the climax of the whole movie. The movie, the way the movie has been built up to that moment. And content is basically like that. When you have an audience, they're watching your content expecting that climactic moment, the wow moment.

Hooks are basically this forced, you know, controversial statement at the start that actually don't do anything. And if you start to understand that your climax is the most important part of your newsletter, YouTube video, everything, it will change everything. Now, I'm here on my bridge skill. And for example, what I would do for Jordan, I've got a random script here, draft. Okay, I would run this skill and what it does is basically it instantly identifies the climax for me and then then and then it gives me openings which match that climax. Instead of me finding these 50 power words to use for hooks, I'm using the climax. And this is the best way to create content and stuff that people just don't talk about when it comes to social media. And honestly, if you can understand this, this is literally one of the most important things in this video. If you want me to dive more into reconstructing reals, carousels, and actually building towards a climax, let me know in the comments.

But honestly, this bridge can be used anywhere. So, if I'm creating any piece of content, newsletter, YouTube video, Tik Tok, whatever, this bridge is going to help me create real content which actually has a real payoff for viewers. Next, we have the signal mine. So, this finds content angles hiding in raw data. So for example, if I have news, Reddit posts, you know, whatever it is, this will turn it into actual angles for me as a content creator. Now, this is an automation I ran where it was able to gather information from Reddit X, etc.

And I do this on a daily basis for my personal brand, etc. If you want me to make a video about automations, for research, for analysis, let me know. But let's say I've got this information here, and again, remember, you can just paste blogs, you can put anything. I run my signal m from this. What it will do is give me opportunities or or possible angles for content. So the signals worth posting about ranked. So the first one is the 10k steps number was always fake.

Posting on walks are the real lever. The gym already budgeted for your quitting by February, etc., etc. Then it just gives me angles and gets me going in terms of what I could possibly do for content. You know, sometimes we're stuck with content. You know, not sure what to do. I have this automated where it gives me information. It saves me time from scrolling and just wasting a bunch of time. And this signal mind skill can be used on anything. So if I had a blog, if I had a Reddit post, any information, I just throw it in here, run this, and it's done. And of course, you can have an automation system behind. Let me know in the comments if you want me to jump more into this, but this is an extremely useful one to have. Next up is one of my favorite. Now, often as creators on social media, we don't actually give our own stories or stories that are real life around us. And storytelling is one of the best ways to build authority.

This pulls the content angles hidden in pulls the content angles hidden inside your own stories. So let's say when you use it, you have a great client win or a personal moment but only see one post in it or you can't see a post. So what you would do for this is so for example, I'd run my story mode. So mine this for content. Then you literally type in the kind of the story. It could be anything. And what it will do is then tell you what's in here and the different angles that you could create for content. And this is super super important because honestly your stories, everyone's stories, it doesn't matter what world you live in are all unique and position you differently from everyone else. And one of the things with content is that it's all very similar and if you can stand out, that's your opportunity. Do not sleep on story mine. It's extremely valuable. If you want me to dive more into storytelling, which is a massive, massive skill, let me know. The next one is freebie suggest. Now, freebies are a massive tool if you want to build lead magnets, if you want to build emails, you know, if you want to make a business. Massive. Turns a content topic into a specific lead magnet graded on effort versus payoff. So, let me show you how this would work. So, I would run my skill right here. I'm making content this week about so for example if I had a big chat which was me creating real content like or ideas for YouTube etc. I could run my freebie suggest in there b and ask it to based on this these content give me some freebies but in this case I'm just going to run you know an example piece of content and from that it's able to give me five different kind of angles or four in this case angles of simple freebies that I could create. So a short PDF, carousel as PDF, what's in it, what to do on the days the plan falls apart, you know, and it just gives me these options which I can then easily create. Freebies are a massive, massive tool for me and for most creators who are leveraging, now is the best time to do this. And you can see it always gives me a quick win. So the one that I could probably do the easiest and the quickest, boom, done. The keyword if I want to integrate it into my man many chat or my automations, it's already right there. So, it does a lot of the heavy lifting for me in a matter of seconds.

Okay, now some of you are here specifically for Instagram. Let's jump into the Instagram section. So, here we have four specific skills. Now, of course, most of these skills are interchangeable with different social media platforms. Caption plus CTA writes the caption and roots the CTA to the right mechanism per platform. So, here I have my example. So caption and CTA skill write captions for a real I'm posting about etc. Now for these I'm kind of just giving a kind of generic prompt but let's say I'm doing a real.

So, similar to what I've just done in the previous skill, I've got a real, then I do my freebie, then I could do my caption and CTA, and boom, in a simple uh kind of chat, I've got a sequence. Create the reel, create the freebie or the suggest, and create the caption. And boom, it's able to give me a professional Instagram caption. And, you know, in this case, it gives me a LinkedIn one, etc. Obviously, you can ask it not to do LinkedIn, not to do X, etc. And it gives me the CTA kind of mechanism. So what's going to be kind of the comment walk exactly the same as the other one. Keep the caption collapse friendly etc. Of course if I want you know these m dashes to be removed in my um captions you know you just kind of tweak the skill slightly very simple tweaking but a very very useful skill a fundamental basic skill that again is going to change your chats. Next is the real scriptor. You guessed it it couldn't be a video without this. So, write the full short form script, climax lead opener, tight beats, visual cues, batching day. You know, this is super useful. Of course, you know, I've got the real script that I'm giving you is kind of one I've created. But of course, over time, you want to tweak it, you know, make it understand your script style, understand your, you know, your climax opportunities, the way you create content. Small tweaks over time. That's how you're going to create your skill.

Boom. Real scriptor. Write me a real script on why walking 20 minutes after meals, you know, and it just starts creating. And then from there, it's got the opener beat one. It even gives me visuals if I wanted to update it and say, "Don't give me visuals. I don't need this. I just need text." It does all of that. But it's super super simple. Even includes a CTA if that's my content. Couple of notes. Now, this is where it gets interesting. So, let's say I've got my real script. And this is where I want to start showing you how a system in this actually works. So, this already understands want me to run this opener through the bridge. So, it's giving me this script, but it understands that this is how a system works is boom, let's run it through the bridge. It understands that and then it will start giving me better openings that match the climax of the video. And there you have it. And then from there, you know, it would could go on to, you know, my caption CTA, could go on to my freebie. And this is how you start building these systems where instead of me typing, you know, speaking, all of this, it's already predetermined or preset because I've put in the work.

Next up is audience gaps. This is extremely important because often as creators or on social media, we focus very much on, you know, what we're creating, what I think, what, you know, all about me. But we need to actually understand that it's the audience that's going to watch our video, that's going to buy something, that's going to like it, that's going to save it, that's going to share it. So what does this do? It surfaces the three questions your audience is silently asking and what to possibly do with each. So before posting to catch what's missing. So this is extremely important. So here's a real script I'm about to post. What are the questions my audience might be silently, you know, asking when they watch. So So in this case, you know, this information might be useful for me to answer in the caption. So if there's something I've missed in my reel, I can then focus my caption to have this information. If I did this with a real script before I've recorded it, it might give me a different outlook on how to readjust my script. So, you can see here audience gaps 20-minute walk after dinner. Boom.

What I what if I can't walk after eating, you know, etc. Yeah. So, the content is about walking after dinner. And then it's like, you know, what if I can't walk after dinner? I'm back on calls picking up kids. It's dark and freezing outside. It starts giving you different perspectives or what people might ask. And this is honestly a big big gap. This one is one of my favorite. Okay. And I didn't do it justice with the name followup engine. So let's say one of your posts went viral. What you would do is start again. Maybe I don't know what to do. Let's just post this.

No, no, no, no, no, no. What you need to do is you need to post a follow-up of that content that's actually going to match potentially the previous one that did well. And this does exactly that. So here follow up engine my reel on walking 20 minutes after meals just blew up 340,000 views 1,200 saves actually would probably have more saves but there's the point what it will do why it worked. So it give you a quick insight into why it worked and then the follow-up the deeper cut why timings work. The next question does it have to be 20 minutes after every meal. Different angles that you can follow up. This is how momentum works on social media. If you understand this big big opportunity for you to grow. If you want me to dive deeper into this I don't know what I'd call this but you know let's say follow-up like the follow-up method. Understanding this is something that people don't speak about but is one of the key key aspects of growth on social media.

It's YouTube time. Now, YouTube is where things get spicy. Again, if you're not doing YouTube, don't worry because trust me, there's still opportunities here for you. And later on in the video, they get even better. So, YouTube ideation. So, video ideas built for how YouTube actually surfaces content. So, when you use it, you can for planning content. So, let's actually put this into practice. So, YouTube ideation. Give me a YouTube video ideas for my channel. I help busy professionals 3 to 32 to 45 lose weight substantially without leaving in the gym etc etc. So what it will do is then start to give me ideas.

Now again if I'm running the signal mine I could give the information it gives me you know from there into this you know and that's when you start piecing these skills together but obviously I've kind of given it a generic one but it then starts to give me these important pieces of information. You know what intent is this search? you know why it gets discovered because people are actually potentially typing this you know intent browse. So people are potentially browsing and they might be you know is it's going to stop the scroll. It's clickbait. Extremely useful to have this skill when you're ideating because ideiating is not easy. Okay coming up with ideas is not easy. But if you're using the goal one if you're using the signal mind you're using this one YouTube content can become easier for you. YouTube packaging. Now this is a big one. title and thumbnail word pairs that never echo each other. So this is super important. You know, this is essentially like with packaging, you know, everyone will have their kind of own ideas or their own ways to do packaging. But essentially once you have like a packaging formula, you've been testing it. You know, let's say I've got my idea done. I've got my script done then or before even I've done that, I could just do my packaging. Packaging is super important when it comes to YouTube because without a good title, without a good thumbnail, no one is going to watch your video. You can have the best video on the planet, but if those two don't work, you don't understand how people are going to press your video, then it's all pointless. YouTube packaging, once you have a formula, having this in a skill that you could just go boom quickly is extremely useful because you don't want to waste. YouTube videos are difficult to create. There's so many different components that being able to just quickly run through them, get information fast is going to help you a ton. This is an extremely important tool. If you want me to make a video more about packaging, even for social media in general, because packaging is what makes people press a video and if you understand that, again, it's going to give you so much better results.

Okay, so one of the first things, you know, once you have your packaging, once you've done your signal mind, once you've got your ideas locked in, what you want to do is not go straight to script. Okay, you need to turn a topic into a full kind of retention awareness video structure. Okay, so once you have the stuff logged in, what you want to do is start outlining how the video could potentially be. This is extremely important because a lot of people go straight into now write me a script, but you need to have a flow through your videos. One thing that what you know I really work on in my YouTube videos is the flow. So at the beginning of this video I had the universal part, then I have the Instagram, then I have the YouTube, then I have the systems. Like I'm purposefully building my videos in that way. You know, if I'd put YouTube right at the beginning, maybe some of you would press off the video. So everything is intentional when you're creating content. And this helps you to do that. You could do the exact same for short form. So when you have an idea, you know, how am I going to, you know, structure this? How what's the outline?

An outline is going to give you the the skeleton. Okay? And having a skeleton is extremely important. Now, you might be thinking, you know, this is so many different steps. But once you have a skill set up, once it's just a matter of, okay, skeleton, okay, have a read. You know, maybe I'm going to swap this or this doesn't make sense. Done. Next script, and it just starts to piece together. So, yes, it seems long, but those are the steps it takes to achieve the results that you know people achieve. This is one of the classics, long too short. You have a long YouTube video from a competitor, from a random channel, from your own. You want to take it into turn it into some short form script. Well, guess what? This skill does exactly that. So, you know, often you want, you know, often as a creator, so so, so as I've just said, you might be in loads of different scenarios. You might be just researching on YouTube, looking at other creators. You're not a YouTube creator, but you can get their transcript. You have just done a YouTube video. You want to turn it into some reals. Boom. All you would do is log to log to short, put in your script. You know, in this case, I've just put in a summary. Summary also works, but the more information the better. And what it will do is start then giving you ideas for your short form content. extremely useful because once you have this system, let's say for me, I've got a a YouTube video and you know, I want to get people from Instagram to watch my YouTube video or people to watch my Instagram for my YouTube, you know, once you have these systems all tied in and you're not creating random content for this, random content for that and it's all tied together. Things work but much better for you. Again, this is part of a bigger system. You can do the opposite of this as well, short to long. If you have success on Instagram, you want to start creating some long form. You know, where can I find opportunities in my short form? But ultimately, this is one of the most popular ones where you have long YouTube scripts or long pieces of content. It could even be blogs, newsletters, anything. And it just is able to translate that or recreate that into short form content. This one is a very popular one. Game changer.

And now we've reached systems. Okay, so systems are super important. This one, I think I've maybe said it twice, but this one is also one of my favorite series. huge series, Instagram, Tik Tok, anywhere, series are super important because people ultimately will watch multiple pieces of content. Okay? If one of your videos is about a penguin falling off a cliff or story about that, the next one is why you know you need to grow tomatoes in your garden, then there's a bit of a kind of no connection between them. Series make sure that people keep watching your content, that they understand what you're posting about. turns one big idea into connected multi-part series across cross across platforms. So right here I've got my plan a content series around my core philosophy sustainable fat loss for busy professional beats every extreme diet.

Now of course this one is kind of a broader or you know more first step. So I just wanted to plan a series but let's say I've currently you know got content that's performed really well and I wanted to run the follow-up one. I could also run a series planner where both of them work together or in sig and a series is so useful. So you can see right here core philosophy why busy professionals fail every diet the four levers that actually move fat loss when you're time poor. So once you have your ideas, whether it's signal mine or whatever, run it through a series planner and that's how you just get months and months worth of content so so easily that actually has substantial value to your audience and is going to help you build momentum and grow. This is an absolute important tool. Doesn't matter if you're YouTube, Instagram, whatever. Even gives you suggestions, but of course it's down to you. This is a big one. So newsletter drafter. So email marketing is absolutely huge because essentially with your YouTube, with your Instagram, with your Tik Tok, with your ex account, with your LinkedIn, you don't really own your audience. But once you start getting people's emails, you start emailing them, you own that email list. And this is a massive valuable asset. And but creating newsletters, creating emails is not easy. Okay? But you can actually create a newsletter drafter that makes your life easier. Okay? And what you would do for this is this. So essentially write a newsletter issue from my list topic why walking 20 minutes after meals beats chasing 10,000 steps and what that teaches about sustainable fat loss generally and from there it will start to build that for you. Now of course what I would suggest for this is potentially getting some formats or some examples of newsletters in your niche that you like just so that you can make tweaks to this actual skill. If you want me to make a video which goes more into newsletters, lead magnets, building that system for, you know, creating an actual business, let me know because this is a massive aspect of social media. You know, everyone's talking about views, you know, growth, etc. Hooks, hooks, hooks. But what's that for? It's for this. It's for building a business. So, if you want me to speak more about this, let me know.

But again, this is a massive, massive tool that you do not want to lose out on. Before I show you these 17 unmissable skills, we're going to start off with me giving you the rundown. So, skills are reusable tools that save you hours every single week. By the end of this video, you will know how to build skills, how to use my skills, and it will change your entire workflow. So, you build it once, you set it up in minutes, and it runs forever, and it's triggered forever. So, one word, and it will trigger and start, and it's literally saved me so much time. Now, to install skills, it's super simple. You go here to your claude customize, press skills and then you have three different options. So you can browse skills, you can create with claude, write skill instructions or upload skills. So the skills I give you which will be available in my vault in the description of this video for free. I deserve a like. You just literally come here, drag the file into upload a skill and it's ready to go. You're going to see how skills connect within chats to build these systems that make my life so much easier as a content creator. Let's jump into it. Okay, so now we have the skill opportunity finder. So these next two are so important. These are the meta skills that literally everyone has to be using. Okay? And this is where you're going to be able to build your own. So essentially for this, it's simple. Here I have my chat and essentially I've put in the purpose of this is basically we all spend a lot of time on claude on you know doing stuff having these chats within that we're feeding it information. We're you know doing stuff with this skill opportunity finder. What it does is it will scan all of your clawed chats and find patterns that you often repeat that you should have skills for. So all of the skills I've provided in this video you can use, but there's going to be skills that I can't provide for you that are easily turned into skills. And this will literally do that for you. So here you can see on my dummy account it will it digs into my actual chat history find the patterns and then it starts to scan everything and gives me opportunities ranked by leverage where it thinks I should have certain skills you know for my workflow and this is going to be an absolute this is probably the biggest game changer now in this whole video because if you use Claude for even a few hours a week there's going to be tons of data and things you can do to build a better system. Then the next one is builder, which is building that skill. You might be thinking, Alex, but how am I going to build that skill? Well, guess what?

Claude actually have their own skill builder provided for all of us. And you can see right here after that, I was like/skiller, build me the skill for a specific one that I wanted. And literally from there, it gave me everything. And I would literally, it literally builds me the skill. And then I save skill. And then in the future when I want to run it, I literally go campaign. I didn't install it in that case, but it would be like that. And you can see again that will be in your personal skills right here. Skill creator added by anthropic right there.

These two skills alone will change your entire workflow. Okay? So, you have a brain, a generator, and a set of skills. But now, what you don't have is essentially you've just been able to make one thing at a time. Well, guess what? Now, we're going to take that one idea to make a whole month's worth of content. Okay. So, to make this challenge work, I've pre-planned a five kind of step or five levels to make this work. Okay.

Because I've got a limited amount of time and trying to do this in less than 30 minutes and I want to do 30 days worth of content as I don't really care about this page in one conversation. Okay. So, I've split this into five different levels. Focus, style, plan, create, and package. And I've created this document which is going to be available to everyone in my vault which I'm actually going to use live step by step which guides us through the entire process. Okay. So 30 days of content one conversation. Each phase or each level is going to give you examples on how to use it etc. So I deserve a like just for giving you this and for the way you know I'm pre-planning everything to help. But what to give Claude? So our first prompt is this one here. And the reason we need to start with focus is this. When we have a page, when we're using AI with, you know, it's not just about strategy, it's that the AI needs kind of context.

It needs an operating system. It needs a foundation. It needs a a north star, a goal. And essentially, with most pages on social media, they're designed to make money. Okay? And what's the best way to make money? With this simple framework right here, you can rechange or rec-calibrate your business. You have three parts of this framework. So you have person, who specifically are we talking to? Then we have tension. Why?

What do they feel but can't say? Then we have path. So where does following you lead? So me no more more not more motivation content could be a reparenting journal, a guided community, therapy adjacent sponsors. Okay. Then essentially we need to be able to answer this. You need as a person, whatever industry you're in, I help person who feels tension by showing them this path. If you want to make money on social media, YouTube, anything, you need to be able to answer things simply in this format. And I'm going to help you right now. Now, what does this look like for any creator? You could be a fitness coach, personal brand, business, doesn't matter. I help busy parents who feel guilty about taking time for themselves by giving them permission to prioritize their health in 20 minutes a day. You see, this is super intentional. It's going to allow us to create all of this content super like specifically and, you know, actually do some good stuff which is unique, not generic. Business creator, I help burnt out freelancers who've lost control of their time by building systems that give their life back. So, there you go. Now, what we're going to do is scroll down to level one.

So find who you're really serving, what they actually feel and what you could build on it. So grab this prompt right here. Now I've already started and what you can do is just paste the prompt in and you basically as you can see here what to give Claude. You just throw in some assets you have. So if you have competitors you can throw some competitors you like. If you already have a page you can throw some of your best performing stuff, your bio, whatever you have like you can throw in analytics, anything. Okay. Then you run the prompt and what you should expect is a deep breakdown of some of the posts and then three four directions which are going to essentially be our focus. Okay, which is going to really help build this foundation for the rest of the video. So you can see right here, you know, it speaks about the post. I'm going to scroll down. Then it's going to give me four directions. So for this one, it's giving me a faith restoration at scale, the daily good news network. I'm already just going to skip that one because I don't want to do news. Decoded words for feelings you didn't know you had. So day-to-day pivot the page towards Japanese emotions post format. So this sounds good already aesthetically. I can imagine it. Who the audience becomes giving me a brief description. Then the moment of truth 90-day monetization. I need to know at this point and so does the AI. So does everything how we're going to actually build something from this. Okay. So and you can see the final line. I help emotionally articulate people who can't name what they're feeling reclaim their inner life by giving them the words other cultures already invented. That's actually pretty cool concept. You know what? Yeah. I mean, I'm not going to look at these ones. I'm just going to lock in two, which I had already done. Lock in number two. And what will So, you can see here, pick one direction, lock it in in the claw convo. Boom. Lock it in. So, the first decision, pivot or new account.

Don't waste pivot creon. Boom. Boom. Boom. Okay, now it's starting to give me some like, you know, kind of ideas. And this will be dependent on your model, your history, and stuff like that if you're doing this on a new account or incognito. But essentially, now we're going to move to level two, which is super important. So, you don't need to really interact with that. You need to just get the information you need and move on. Because trust me, I've built this in a way that's going to maximize everything.

Okay, so the next level is style. And this is going to allow us to get to creating content as quickly as possible. When you don't have a style locked in, your page will look like crevion, just all over the place, messy. And to monetize, you need to have a strong brand that people remember. So this is difference. No lock style, random lock style, clean. Now to have a style, you want to basically be touching these six different elements. So palette, figure style, text treatment, anti-style. So what is against, you know, stuff that you don't want in your brand. So it's important to have this locked in. Now for this, we're going to go to this prompt right here. Now for this, you need something a reference point. So what I did is I went to Pinterest and I'm going to go down the Japanese road.

So I typed in, so if I go back, I typed in Japanese style motivation. Then what happens on Pinterest, you press one and it will start showing you loads in that style and you just kind of go down the rabbit hole. Now you can get reference from anywhere and it's super useful because it's important. You can get references from logos in real life. You can get it from YouTube, Instagram, competitors, your own content, anywhere.

It doesn't matter. Once you have that, you grab the prompt and head and you can see here what to give Claude. Go to here and you I picked about five. Threw that in here. Now, we're going to be creating this video wouldn't be possible without Hicksfield because now I can create content in Claude with my Hicksfield connector means I have access to all the latest image generation models, video generation models within Claude, which is insane. So, from Nanobanana to ChadBt to Nanabanana 99 when it comes out, it will always be here. Now, now to get access to this, you it's called Hakesfield MCP. So, you head over to Higfield. link will be in the description. You go to MCP and it will tell you how to install it. So, open Claude settings. Super easy. You literally go settings. Then you add the custom connector. Copy this, sign in, and it's done. Now you have Hicksfield in your Clawude chat. And you can see right here, connectors Hickfield. Boom.

Ready to go. So, I put in my prompt. Now, with any of these prompts, you can edit them, add extra stuff. I made sure to put use Hickfield chat chatbt image 2 and put text on the images. Okay, so I did that and it came back with these uh three which don't look bad at all. So you can see right here using chat GBT image too don't look bad at all but I thought I want to take this further. Now all of these prompts I've built the plan. It's it's it's prepared but you can add your own prompts and push back.

And that's exactly what I did right here. I like all of these, but I want to have a character throughout my post which I can build the brand around too which matches the style and focus. Can we create some more with this in mind? And guess what? It came up with the wanderer. So always seen from behind three four rear face never visible and boom. From there it started creating it and wow these are so much better than you know these kind of these are this one I really was impressed as well but yeah so much better because now it adds that kind of feel that character so you can see clean and boom again right there I mean I don't know which one I will pick I think this one is like the most I'm not sure I don't know I think let's go for number one so what is the actual So, what to expect three visuals and then I guess I need to pick one in. So, yeah. Okay, let's move over to the next section once like which is starting to build this plan. Now, just quickly on Higsfield, you'll have access to all the content you make. So, anything that you make in Claude. So, you know, everything I make here, I can it will always automatically go onto my Hicksfield account, which is where all my assets and everything are, which is super useful because then I can, you know, create more. I can, you know, upscale, enhance, do anything as well in here, you know, look at the prompts that, um, Claude actually used, you know, look at if I want to change the quality to low, you know, whatever. So, it's super useful, but again, you can just stick inside Claude. So, this is a game changer. But, let's move over to the next part, which is going to be the plan. So you can see right here, focus style, done, then plan, then we're going to create. So let's go over to plan.

We'll start building this together cuz I'm running out of time. Okay, so now it's starting to plan our months of content. Now, there's a few things we need to kind of look at here. The first thing is on social media, on YouTube, anywhere, you need to have series. And that's why it was important to have our focus part at the beginning because from that kind of specific understanding of our you know focus we can build series and the reason to do this is we don't want random topics.

Okay random topics attract you know different people that like tigers then you post something about a penguin they like penguins. You need to have some kind of connectivity between your content on any platform. when things are intentional, you're building an ecosystem, it's predictable, the, you know, AI makes it predictable as well. So everything is in sync and even it kind of fits your sales process as well. So you know, with the binge loop, this is another angle. So if you start to have connecting series and now on Instagram, you know, you can have connecting series and stuff like that.

Someone sees part three on their explore page, you know, that one does really well. They save it, visits profile, they find one parts one and two, then they follow you and it creates this loop when your content is all kind of connecting. So, it's super important for us to understand this right now in our plan. You know, I'm not just creating 30 days of random content. I want this to be purposeful and you know, that's why I spent time building all of this. So, this is the prompt right here. I've already got it. Uh, yeah, I've just pasted it in the season architect. So series from the margins credibility chooses every two weeks words from minority under translated languages etc.

Words without translations saves okay and then it has like a focus for each one calendar May 10th to June the 6th. Wow. Okay. Wanderer's notebook from the margins. Damn. Okay. Visual variations within the locked style. Wow. All from that prompt. what this month build towards the arch architecture isn't accidental by June 6 you'll have a character with a in a life two proof points a weekly okay amazing so after this a full okay amazing so you know it's honestly that simple to be able to kind of build it when you understand what you're trying to do just the fact that I want to do 30 days I had a two three recurring system I had a style I had something locked in I had a focus things start to built.

Level five is your packaging. And we've got a few different things in here. So, don't think it's just captions cuz trust me, it's not. And I'm about to blow your mind with something. But what does ready supposed to mean? This is not a good caption. Okay? Very generic. Stay motivated. Keep pushing forward. You've got this. No, we want con contextual captions. Stuff that actually matters, that actually makes sense, that actually matches. Claude can only write this because it's been in the conversation for every decision. Okay, it's important. Now, level five package. The goal, complete posting package, 30 captions, written invoices, schedule, dates, times, rewritten bio, and I'm going to create a lead magnet in this chat. An actual freebie for us to build our business to take this further. Okay, so let's go back to the chat. So, the first prompt I did right here, simple one, copy and paste. Boom. Write every caption for the next 30-day calendar.

Each one needs to sound like it's not comes from a specific page or specific focus etc. and started to write the CTA CTA CTA. Now obviously I could give um you know if you have additional info like the CTAs you know I want it to be like keywords for many chat I want it to be based on this etc. You just add that variation. Use your secondary tab and do that. And obviously this is slightly generic because you know I'm creating a YouTube video for multiple different people in different niches to see. But you know essentially if you can make small adjustments where it matches your you know exact requirement it's very simple to do and it will fit. Okay. So for this it's doing what I've asked. Now you can see here. So CTA here it's telling me the CTA. Save this for the next time the light surprises you have the word tag someone whose life you actually do know you know so it's all there so let's scroll down and see you know it kind of came up with all of that how how the CTAs are distributed across 16 posts so it's giving me that information super important super useful what separates these from generic captions that's very useful now at this point I wanted to rewrite my bio so you know this page is just not right now where it needs to be if I want to do So I needed to kind of yeah let's take it up a level. So that's what I did and it came back with this. So name field to change to this decoded words English forgot bio the feelings you've had your whole life named by every language but yours one word a week carried by the wanderer. So of course you know I wouldn't say that this is an optimal bio but it is definitely more on brand and in sync to you know the what I want and is what I want. Um I would say you know it could be better but this video isn't focused necessarily on an Instagram you know like you know perfectionism. Um but this is way better and again fits on brand. What I would say is if there are bios or you know a bit more information that you can give here or like goals then you can add that again you know you can give reference bios from other pages etc. But in a in a nutshell this is super clean. Then we've got to the good bit which is it decided to create this le the lexicon. Okay, which is a link which is a freebie the lead magnet 25 untransatable feelings format PDF structure and I thought you know it would create like a three-page document.

they decided to create a 25word document freebie which has like different words in different languages and gives them kind of like context and stuff like that and it even decided to create a cover for me. Um so and it even has actually given me like a kind of welcome email post download sequence for my emails etc. If you want me to go more into like lead magnets, the business side of things, you know, setting up like welcome email automations, etc., again, let me know. But it's essentially either one moves you closer to the 4, 7K, 600, 900 m on the 90-day project.

So, there you go. Can you turn it into an actual document? So, I wanted it to turn into an actual document. So, it did that and you should be able to see it right here. So, you can see that figure is weird, but again, carried by the wanderer creon. You can see I made no like edits or anything to this and I was extremely surprised by how clean it is. Like now of course you can tell that it is created by Claude if you understand Claude but if with a bit of editing or with a few improvements in kind of um prompting it would be undistinguishable and really really clean. Okay. Like if I took this to Canva, made some edits, added some stuff, but it's insane how it's made.

It's actually did I think, yeah, it did 34 pages. You know, if your audience likes your page and then they're downloading this for free and getting access to this, you know, it's it's a no-brainer. If you like the full one, it's coming this summer. You've already you're already on the list. So, wow. So, you see lead magnet right there. Um, now the next thing two was the dashboard. I wanted to get a visual dashboard of just everything that we've kind of created so that we can um have a look and yeah so let's open this up right here so you can see so the decoded system which we've created so words for decoded complete content system for the Instagram account formerly known as crevon um so the focus the architecture so it's giving me information about my pallet the wanderer this is super useful if I decide to hire people if I decide to move to chat GBT if I decide to do anything. Having something like this is kind of a foundation and super useful in terms of you know if you ever start to wander away you know you can see here I've got three series three jobs you know I can always get information from this now with AI the calendar again in the future I can just spin this around 16 captions written all right here from follower to reader to buyer so I've got the feed I've got the lexicon I've got the full lexicon if I wanted to create this so £29 book or dollar book $7 a month letter bundle $39. So, it's already given me like a kind of business plan that could work 90 days from pivot to first revenue floor.

I'm tempted to do this. Should I try this? What was built? Everything above came from one conversation. So, we did the pivot, the identity, the system, the calendar, the images, the motion, the voice, the lexicon, words for feelings, English forgot. And there we have it. And there we have it in one chat. If I scroll all the way up, you will see that we've been able to create and build this entire account from scratch again. And you know, this is the power of, you know, systemized AI and intentual an intentional um, you know, strategy like yeah, you know, this account was completely dead and now I have a full system should I want to go ahead with it with no stone unturned. Okay, so you have content people want to watch, but you don't have anything to sell them. So now let's build the offer, the funnel, and the emails. Even if you're a business owner, have clients, whatever.

Do not miss this. So here we have Life of I, and we're going to be using this account to run this experiment or to run this challenge, building these brains, this system. This can be done on literally any account as long as you have a few posts or you could just use competitors. If you ever want to be featured in one of my videos like this creator today, be sure to just drop your account and any information and I'll be storing it for usage in the future. Let's jump back to the video. So, the first thing we want to do is grab some screenshots and you'll see the power of Fable, like how it's able to do this. So, I grabbed a few screenshots. You can see right here.

So, I've got the bio. I've got literally some screenshots of her kind of profile here. And then I've literally downloaded one carousel and just put it in then with my prompt which follows these kind of rules here about position. So who she is for whom online voice one line voice tone rules pallet type world rules. So this is all going to be available in my vault. All the prompts that I'm about to show you to build this brand business content run. Okay. Now to make this all happen I've had to connect my Higsfield to my claude. And Higsfield is my number one image and video generation platform.

So you can see right here if I press image I've got Chachi image 2 Nabonana 2 etc. All the latest models anytime they come here rather than me you know subscribing to all of them and doing them all in different places. Everything can be done right here. The beautiful thing is this MCP right here. I'm able to go onto Claude and connect this to it simply by going to settings or to customize. right here. I'm able to go to connectors and literally connect it to Hicksfield, which means now in my chat anytime I want, I can just be like create with Chad Beauty Image 2 or Seed Dance or whatever. It's the [music] bridge that connects my Claude to these powerful image or video generation tools. Once that's connected, which I was able to, I've essentially then started to build this brand and you can see this whole thing was done here.

Okay, so Life of Eye palette. Boom. We've got all the hex codes that we need. Perfect. So, the thing I wanted was a mood board. And remember, we're going to keep referencing her page right here. Mood board. Okay, looks pretty good. The palette looks good. So, small tweaks, big focus. It's giving me the text [music] to use, should use based on the images that I've shared, etc. And it looks clean, honestly. Like, that's a clean start. So, let's see. Let's go down. And then I have the final kind of brand brain. So, you can see right here, master rules document. So, positioning, Aisha is the techs friend who finds the features your devices were hiding from you. Boom. Voice. It's givingven me all of that just from that information.

Boom. Saved all of that typography, etc. And all I would do then is save that and you can store that anywhere. And that's your kind of brand brain. But now let's take it further because we're building a whole system. So essentially one thing to remember is with all [music] of these different models, Fable builds the brain and that's what we're kind of doing with this chat. Okay. But we're also testing it, seeing what it can do when I push it to the limit. So think across everything at once, executes rules that already exist. [music] This is Sonet. So, we're building the rules now and Sonnet and the other models will be able to execute them later.

Now, what we want to do is with business, what are we looking for? One of the reasons I picked her as well is she didn't have a product. Okay, so she's got these million followers, but she's not monetizing. So, what can we do? What is Fable going to come up with? Three directions each rendered as a real product. It argues like an investor. Weak ideas die. Um, the offer, product, audience, price, why it wins. Okay, so business brain, the product comes from the brand, not bolted onto it. So let's see [music] what happens when I give the prompt. So next the business brain again this will be in my vault. Let's have a look at what happens. So what it would have done first is you can see this is the output. So the thinking would have been a lot more complex. The reason I asked it to do thinking then generate is because sometimes it could have gone just to generating random stuff but it did the thinking. Okay. So three directions. The lazy girl tech vault. A one-time digital tool kit. Uh every hack app shortcut text replacement she's never ever posted. Organized with a searchable match green dashboard. Okay.

cozy screen kit aesthetic pack, low monthly membership. Now the mockups, so the lazy girl tech and you know another thing with Fable as well when I'm using these image generation models etc on Hicksfield, they're going to be better because the thought or the process is better. Okay, this is the cozy screen kit 30 plus wallpapers and icons. Wow, that actually looks pretty cool like in terms of like just fitting the brand and stuff. Basically building a brand like business plan deck. Okay, so this is how the membership would look. Wow. Okay, member number one. It looks good. All three are rendered above. Now the part where I try to kill them. So this is a commodity and a drowning in free alternatives. Pinterest gum road. Okay fine. Memberships are a content treadmill. Entire brand promises low effort. Fine. Against the vault. The honest attacks are the one time have a revenue ceiling. Yeah. Okay fine. But the vault wins because it monetizes proven demand. Saves matches the brand's loweffort promise on both sides of the transaction. Perfect. So the lazy gold tech £24 one time. So that's around $30.

Lifetime updates. All 150 hacks organized into a matching dashboard from number one. Okay. Perfect. So let's actually look at what it kind of gave us as the brain the product. So on one time purchased toolkit every hack who's it for? So it done all of that thinking decided that it was going to be the lazy girl tech vault. Then it built kind of this business brain version one about this product right here which I think really does match hip. And you know the images I was able to create for example they look good honestly like that one looks clean. uh you know I could probably build a website and if I should build a website or something let me know in the comments if you want me to go deeper into any of the brains like I can easily go deeper into the business brain you know building a whole [music] business strategy you know with AI for your social media etc again let me know in the comments anything that pops up I'm always checking comments and I do write things down so core contents at launch 152 hacks organized by device who's it for it the buyer is the saver the follower 2238 Apple ecosystem who has saved five of her carousels and implemented none okay find the core offer onetime purchase purchase pricing logic. Okay, so launch window £19, $25, then 30, etc. Okay, cool. So, it's given a lot of different information, which is super important, you know, because it's it needs to have logic when it's creating a business strategy.

What's next? The content brain. So, once we have the branding, [music] we have the business side, the next part is kind of building this content around that. Because if we're going to sell this product, we need to create some content that actually sells it, right? So, pillars, each one lands to the product. funnel map, reach, trust, [music] sell, hooks, inner voice from brainer one formats, real carousels and why. Again, if you want me to jump into any of these, all of [music] these are independently massive topics. I can do that. Now, the content brain using the brand brain and business brain build her content brain. Three to four content pillars. Each one must connect to why someone would eventually buy the product. Super important funnel mapped.

So, a funnel, top of the funnel, middleunnel, sell, bottom. Essentially, it it will tell us where this content sits in and the formats real carousels etc. Okay, cool. Pillar one, device betrayal. Your Mac has been doing all of this the whole time and said nothing. This makes content creation so much easier when you get your pillars right. Pillars are massive because then you can start rotating. You can be more strategic. The days where you're like, what should I post? You can start go back to your pillars. Go back to the way your system that you're building. Funnel map. So real. This is your reach betrayal carousel whimsy. Okay. Middle of the funnel. So it's giving me examples of different kind of content that serve each part of the funnel. So your reach, trust, sell. Okay. Okay. So, this is where you grab people, you build trust, then you sell to them. Hook styles. Again, it's giving me hook styles. Wow. Okay. Formats, what runs and where? Carousels, reels, stories, the system in in one line, whims in betrayal, find them. Setups and receives make them believe. The save becomes the sale. Use saved folder. It actually works. Very interesting. So now once I have these three done, make the launch concept. Essentially at this point, it's about what can we do with these three brains to build this business. And you know I've been able to do this in a matter of minutes which is insane using fable format study first. So editorial typos object etc. So let's have a look.

So assignments okay so it's creating some carousels. So the task I've given it here we've got those brains. Let's start creating some content and put your money where your mouth is. So again using cakefield charge image two five whimsical Mac apps that made me close Tik Tok. And you know it's even done that kind of branding that we had in one of the products previously. And honestly, like if I saw that on this page, it [music] would not like stand out. It would fit and look definitely like it matches. What's your thoughts?

Again, that one exact same. And it again like kind of has like this branding to it, the product, etc. And the final one, what's actually inside the lazy girl tech vault? Okay, so it's actually selling something on this one on this particular carousel, which is very good because sometimes we know we're scared to sell. We're not creating content about our products and boom, it's being able to do that as one of the three carousels. At this point, I believe all three are good. I'm happy with them and I want it to build it out. So, essentially, it's able to build out all of these carousels. So, these are all the covers of the carousel and then it builds it out. So, bongo cat and it just starts going, "Wow." Okay.

Wow. Okay. So, is that the CTA as well? Wow. That's crazy. Okay. So, it even adds a CTA again on brand different to the rest of the carousel. Wow, that's actually real real good. Okay, so the next carousel again very similar style. Wow. Okay, hack libraries. So, copy and paste. Wow, this is a really good carousel for selling selling. Like the quality of this is immense. Like and you know literally in one prompt like I haven't put multiple prompts into this at all. Literally one prompt just building kind of this flow this system you're able to get content at this level. That's absolutely I'm I'm super impressed with this um for [music] this this one in particular because you know we're trying to build a business. What was the next step? So now we wanted to launch. Now this is where it gets a bit more um kind of difficult.

So essentially what it was able to do is I decided, okay, I'm going to do a motion graphic. Okay, so like a real. What options do I have to create reals? I didn't want to use her face for this particular video. Um, but kind of what real could we do? So let's see what it came up with. For this one, it decided to do the saved folder intervention. And these are all motion graphics. Okay, I've got it to do it in this chat. 150 things your Mac never told you. Again, this very much fits her vibes of kind of the content that has performed well. So you can see here 1,300 5Girl Mac hacks.

So that's pretty good. 600 on this one. The content brain is named Heropos. It dramatized by its own behavior to save rather than product features count. So let's see. So hey, boom. I did that. I like when the AI essentially is able to ask the right questions to me, you know, cuz again it's important for you to, you know, be part of the process. Whilst this is the architect, you are the kind of buyer, [music] the investor. So you know, you matter in this process. So I went with a it's able to then concept locked decided that it was going to use C dance style locked etc using my brand from my brand document style lock to style lock. So let's see what it came up with. So okay so essentially what it actually came up with was the different um and then I would have have to connect them myself on Cap Cut. There would be a way where I can do this kind of to automate this where it kind of builds the whole motion graphic step by step. [music] If you want me to make a video about that, again, let me know. But essentially, what it gave me was the building block.

So, I would download each one one by one and then be able to [music] just put them together and I'd have a reel and essentially it would create each scene. So, you can see here they're actually pretty good. I don't know if [music] you can hear that. You know, considering the amount we've done in this chat and that it's still on brand, that it still looks really good is good. Like, this is how the motion graphic would start.

Okay. And then it would go to the next one. Extract. Have you tried any? Okay. Yeah, I'm It makes sense. And then the final one is [music] Wow. Okay. So, yeah, obviously the the music and stuff doesn't sync. Um, but that doesn't matter. Like, you could you have a good strong reel. You could pin this at the top of the page right here and that would be okay. Boom. A very credible, strong reel done right there. You just literally download them one by one, put them in Cap Cut, add a song over it. Done. Okay, so production is done. The carousel launch reel approved.

So that's a launch ro. Now we turn everything into operating plan. So essentially for this, so it's created a lead magnet at this point. So free mini vault, page one, 15-minute lazy max setup, 10 starter hacks. Wow, again that looks really good on brand. So let's see what operating plan. So this is my 30-day launch content plan. Wow. Okay. So then, you know, I would again take this to Fable and say, "Okay, let's build. I'm on day two. I'm on day three. And then I want to schedule it.

Let's build it." And you just go with like that because you've got these documents. You've got this set up. So you can see it keeps going. This is where it gets incredibly spicy as well. Emails are a massive part of your ecosystem if you're trying to profit on social media. So [music] this is super important. If you are interested in more of the back end, the business side of social media, emails, etc., that engine, again, let me know in the comments. This is something that I would love to make videos about because this [music] is where you turn your views into actual income. Now, you can see right here, it's built the email engine. So, it's given the lead magnet, a free mini vault. So, it's come up with that notion page built in the same dashboard design as the paid vault. Okay? So, they're connecting where it's prompted the actual CTA lines. Okay? It tells you where to put your CTAs, the opt-in flow.

It then tells me what if I wanted to do a kind of many chat automation what to do the three email sequences the system on one page. Wow. So this is the final system. So the brand brain sets the look and voice the business brain sets the product on offer. The content brain etc. Email sales the product. Wow. So all using Fable using the right connector. Hicksfield gives me the kind of ability to connect my images and video generators. So then I'm able to create these magnificent systems that completely could change this person's, you know, way of creating content, the way they see the content. Remember, if you want me to dive deeper into any of the aspects of this video, from the content brain to brand brain to [music] the business side to emails, just let me know in the comments because honestly, it makes a big difference and it allows me to understand you guys better. Let's jump back to the video. And then finally I asked it to build a dashboard which looked like this which I really think is even on brand but it just gives me a kind of clarity over everything. And if I scroll down I can drop the final export into these slots and they're approved. So crazy. I can just drop stuff into this and then I can see the kind of 30 days launch day 15. So the launch would be here building hype up to it. These are kind of purposeful things.

You can see the content system you know how it sets up kind of obviously I can zoom in a bit and stuff as well. You can see right here for example content brain. So what are we looking at this the content [music] brain is this side of things here £24 once you know $30 whatever what it does email engine right here so you can see kind of how it looks so this is a visual of everything we've built you know which is extremely important and extremely useful when you're [music] building a system with multiple steps okay because if you have a team if I want to go to sonet if I want to do more I can visualize things clearly here this is a massive win for anyone when you're using fable you're building the architecture Okay, the building blocks. So that then now I know the days that I'm going to be using everything. Okay, the days that I'm going to be posting the product. Now I can go to Sonic. I can go to Opus. I don't need to spend credits on Fable because everything is done already. The brain, the structure, and I've built it myself using the power of a tool like Fable. [music] Fable is going to be a master planner where we use it purposefully in our flows. It still is way cheaper than hiring a freelancer.

Hiring, you know, a strategist, incredibly cheaper. It's able to operate at that higher level compared to different models. Okay, this is a super important part. Okay, so the tool got good enough to stop you thinking this is something that I want everyone to really pay attention to with AI. Um you know one of the things is I couldn't make this course without telling you this is that you know and I it was a period in my life where I really struggled with it as well. Everyone is now able to make more posts. Okay. But with posting more because AI has given us this kind of um ability to create more you know at a vast scale we're but we still get the same results. Okay. So how does that kind of gap? So, we're posting more and you might have seen this already, which is why you're on this course. Why you're posting and then what comes back stays, you know, virtually the same. So, you know, why um essentially now everyone has access to AI. Okay, so before most content was pretty bad overall, but now with AI, you know, you can get AI to analyze, it can do your hooks, it can do so many different things. So, most content is is fine. So whilst this is going up, you know, this is the same thing for everyone else. And the ceiling is actually going up too. Okay. So one thing I want you to really pay attention to is three things I don't hand over.

Okay? And this is stuff that I've really learned. Ideas on paper first. So if you do have any ideas, don't be afraid to just go to a piece of paper first, a notepad or even your notes on your phone, voice over, whatever. [clears throat] spend some time actually a few minutes saying that uh thought process okay whatever it is and then take that to AI. If you go straight to AI it you know and say uh I need some ideas for this or you know you will just get generic stuff which the internet is just you know because it's essentially sourced from the internet. Okay. So most of us have creative ideas most of us have unique ideas.

Do not just go straight to AI. Allow yourself to open your own door. Then once you go through that door, you can start to look around and say, "Okay, you know, I want AI to help me with this specific part." That's how you start to stand out. Okay? And your posts don't just become repetitions and you know, you're getting the same output every time. So my goals stay mine. So I decide what I'm aiming at. I do not let the output tell me what I should want. Okay?

That's super important. your goals, anything to do with the kind of yeah what you're aiming for. Please try to digest and come up with that yourself. Uh because AI again does not know you. You know, yes, it might know, you know, that you wake up on Mondays and go to the park for a run, but it doesn't really know you. Okay? So, please make sure you do that. My own logic goes in. So, I add my thinking to what comes back. I never ship its reasoning as if it were mine.

logic. I mean, these two are very much in sync, but the main point here with all three of these is to really have boundaries when you're utilizing AI. Okay. So, you know, you want to make sure that you are not just, you know, trusting it essentially like you're not just okay. Yeah, you're right. Because it's not right. It's advice. Okay. It's suggestions. It's to help you. Okay. It's not, you know, this is it and you have to do that. Okay? So, always be kind of trying to identify that the problem isn't the bad output. It's not reading it. It will give you something decent enough that you skim it and post it. Decent enough is exactly what makes it dangerous. Okay? Decent is not what we want to do. You know, don't be scared. It's better to fail with your own ex like experimentation than just throwing this generic stuff out there which everyone has seen a thousand times. Okay?

If you never write the hook, you never learn hooks and then you cannot tell what its version is weak. You lose the ability to judge the exact thing you handed over. Okay? A hook isn't like too complicated. Okay? hook, you know, is like the first thing that everyone runs to and like, "Oh, yes, give me 20 hooks." In reality, a hook, you know, maybe I'll make a video about hooks. Should I make a video about hooks? But like, in reality, it's not like too complicated. It's just about getting on social media, getting to the point as quickly as possible.

Lying is not what you want to do. It's literally just get to the point as quickly as possible. Okay? Now, AI makes it, you decides if it ships. So, it does the work. And you saw, you know, right at the beginning of the video when I spoke about the models, you know, you've got Fable, the architect. Fable is not your boss. You are the boss of this system. It does the work, you do the thinking, the results are yours. Okay? So, I want you to treat this like a business. You, it does the work for you, but you do the thinking.

Okay? You are the CEO. Keep this speed. Keep your head. Everything in this course works, but it only works if you're in the room. Don't be one of these people that just wants to automate everything. Yeah, I want to do social media, but you know, I don't really want to do it, so I'm going to go to the beach and sip some coconut water and it's going to do everything for me and I'm going to get rich. You're in the wrong game because trust me, it's not going to work like that.

Everyone has that same idea. So, you're using AI wrong. What we're trying to do is use AI to enhance our workflows to save time here to allow me to put my efforts here. It's honestly that simple. Okay, so you have all of it, but you don't have a first step. What you're going to do after this course finishes, here's what you're going to do as soon as you're ready or on Monday. Now, you've just watched everything roughly around 3 hours. If you sit down now and try to do everything, you will get through half and stop. Here is something I recommend.

So the first thing I want you to do is definitely spend about 20 minutes doing the foundation document. Okay? So essentially, you know, you've gone through this, who you are, who it is for, what you never sound like, that's the whole job. I do recommend spending longer than 20 minutes, but I will say 20 minutes is fine. Okay? You know, the foundation documents, the brain documents, like the the the brains, the foundations, that's like the base. You know, you essentially do that once. So rushing that, there's literally no point in that. Okay? So be sure to spend a bit of time on that. If you want to, I recommend probably spending one day on it. Obviously, you can do other stuff, too. Spend a day and then come back the next day when you've slept, you know, you're feeling refreshed and add some more stuff to it. Then you have the brand and the visual brain. So you got colors, fonts, layout, rules. Make sure to do this fresh when your brain is most creative. Try not to do this when you're tired because you want to be able to bring your own creative energy to it.

And essentially that can take about 30 minutes. Again, connect it. Make one thing. One carousel you are checking the brain actually works. Not filling a calendar. So when it comes to creating content, it's not going to be easy. Okay? It's going to take a bit of time. There's going to be still, even though you've watched this, there's still going to be the mistakes. There's still going to be some understanding. So take your time with it. Create one by one and understand that you are learning. Okay, but essentially this is to make sure that the brain works and if there is elements that you want to change, just make the tweaks. Okay, simply go back to the project file. It's simple. Okay, so the rest of the week, one skill, then one week of content. So pick the job you repeat most and turn that into a skill.

Essentially, super easy. Then run the month flow and take a single week out of it. So we don't want to go straight into posting a whole month's worth of content. we just want to create a week's worth of content or a few days in. Okay, but essentially once we have this built, we've got these steps taken care of, then we can start to see, okay, you know what, I'm going to spend more time on this particular aspect. You know, I want to do more video generation. I need to create more skills around this or, you know, I need to maybe do a video a brain for videos. You know, there's all these different things that you're going to develop yourself. The goal of this course and everything I do is to give you the kind of ideation, the workflows, you know, the base to get going because I can't, you know, do it for everyone.

Uh, but I can give you the fundamentals or the tools needed for you to achieve it. Okay? And you can achieve all of this. Leave this alone. Okay? So, the business system, you need an audience before you have an you start to sell an offer. Now, if you do have an audience already, then start running the business system. Okay? But don't let it kind of doing content, business, all and you know struggling with all of it. Like get the content down first, which is something I always do because if you don't have content, you're not really going to be selling anything. So get that down first, then you can start on the business, which is fine. 20 skills, we don't need all 20 skills. We need to just start slowly picking the ones we want to do. Okay? 20 skills is too many. Okay? Normally, you'd have like I'd say six to 10 skills max max max max max max max max max max that you actually use often and probably a few that you're using often.

Okay, so don't start being ultra efficient because that's not going to help. Automating, I know this is everyone's favorite word right now. We don't live in a world where you can just sit back and do nothing. Okay, social media requires you. It requires you. Unless you're building an AI person, etc., which I don't know if that's going to be the future or not, but you are super important. Okay, there are aspects of this and I'll even make videos about it in the future where you can automate things, but try to put in some effort as well because trust me, once you start getting things going, it essentially is automating because now, okay, I've got a system for captions. I still need to go there and say, "Okay, I need to do a caption for this." But instead of me, you know, spending hours on scripts or whatever, it can come to me much quicker. Okay? So, the word automating is, you know, you need to be careful with it. It's not, it doesn't just mean one button and boom, you know, you're off to the moon. No. Um, so do this day one, 20 minutes. Nothing else in the course without works without it. So that kind of foundation before you open anything, don't try to build all of it.

And if you only do one thing, do day one. Set those brains up. Set that foundation up because trust me, things are going to start happening as soon as you make it happen. So we've come to the end of the course. Now, if you have enjoyed this, please like and subscribe as I greatly appreciate that so more people can watch this video and so that I can be inclined to make more like this. Now, this has taken me a while to put together. And if there's any particular aspects you want me to dive deeper into, please let me know in the comments as I always check the comments and you know, I get feedback from you, my audience, um, to create more content that way. you know what I teach I also use you know your comments section is a great way to get information so please ask your questions and yeah you know with AI there is going to be a lot of changes over the next few years but it's important for us to incorporate it into our workflows but not to completely rely on it. I hope this video has been able to help you. If you want to dive deeper into building a brand in a different way, then I recommend watching this video right here. These two playlists are also extremely useful. My name is Alex and I'll see you at the next video.

Let's create smarter.
