And I hate to sound like a hater, cuz I'm not. I hope everybody eventually finds their stride in what works for them. But it's all the same. Every real estate agent is posting the exact same content. The same market updates, the same just listed, the same old boring tips that nobody watches. I saw a video that a good friend of mine who's a realtor did, and I got angry. Matt Thornburg was sick of it, too. So, he stopped. He found the single easiest type of content to create that almost nobody is doing.

It's It's very simple to make, man. All my business comes from open houses and social media. And And that's it. Within his first month, clients started coming directly to him, and his posts were going viral. I remember getting my first lead from social media and just being like, "Oh, this is like this easy?" And it's I think it's at 60,000 views now. Now, it happens every single week that clients are coming to him. And in this interview, he breaks down the exact format For anybody that wants to make content out there, make content in the morning.

Make an Instagram folder and call it R and D. And why it works precisely because everybody else is ignoring it. All right, Matt. So, I'm excited because this is a a very special day near and dear to my heart, a day that I've been waiting ages for, which is the fact that you are crushing content. So, you've been on the channel before, and we talked all things open houses and what you've been able to do. And I'll link that episode below because you are doing six figures a year from open houses in a way that I think many agents have not considered, and it works incredible.

But, we're going to dive into all things content. So, before we start diving in, give some context as to, you know, who you are, where you're from, but also what led you to this journey as somebody that is such a master at scripting, prospecting, open the traditional way to the point where you are now seeing unbelievable results from content. Yeah, that's a good question. Um I'm a rebel. I I don't like rules. I don't like structure. It's why I can't work for anybody else.

Um and I I tend to go against the grain. I tend to like if everybody's doing something one way, I'm like, nah, I want to do it this way. Um I had a baby to almost 2 years ago now. Um and I wanted to focus on different aspects of the business. I saw the priority shift. I've always been a hustler. I've always just like work, work, work as much as I need to to make it happen. And my wife had always been a very awesome supporter and partner of that. That dynamic changed when we brought a little one into the picture. It was like, hey, we need more time from dad. And I and I wanted to be there more. My mentality shifted. I didn't want to work, you know, 10-hour days, 12-hour days, whatever. I wanted to be able to be like, hey, let me bang out the most important needle moving work and then spend the rest of the time with my family, right? Like the priority shifted for myself.

And about 2 months ago, I saw a video that a good friend of mine who's a realtor did and I got angry. I was like, I you know, I was just like, this it's the same it's the same thing. It's literally was my response. I'm like, it's the same your video, their video, my video, every realtor is making the same content. And I'm tired of making it. It It infuriated me when I went to go make my next real estate video. I was like, I don't like it. I'm not enjoying this walk-through, putting the suit on.

That's not who I am anymore. I used to wear suits like every single day. Now I'm in a V-neck every day. Um and it just felt inauthentic. And I just did just broke. I'm like, I'm done. I'm not doing it that way anymore. I'm going to do what I want to do. I love my city. I love this city. I've been to every single state in the United States. I've been to most major cities in the United States, and there's a lot of cool ones, man. I love New Orleans. I love Chicago.

There's some really cool places around, but there's no place, I firmly believe in my heart, there's no place in the world like San Diego. And I absolutely love this city, and I was just like, you know what? I'm just going to start making content about my city because I love it and I'm passionate about it. And I also know that what I've been doing, what building this business with open houses, and open houses are phenomenal.

They're a great lead generation source. If you go back to that video, you'll you'll know I say to people that are out there that are like, "Oh, open houses don't work." It's like, "Well, you're not doing enough of them." If you really want When I wanted to make them my business, I did four or five a week. Now that I have a daughter and I have different priorities, I'm 40 now, I don't want to do four or five open houses a week. I don't I do two or three a week now, and even that I'm like, I don't want to do that. I've been doing it for 10 years. I don't I don't want to work every weekend. I want to take my girl to the zoo or the beach or I want to spend family time on the weekend. So, I had to think about like, how can I shift? How can I bring my personality, which I think is a very big thing in this business, with my ability to communicate and present it in a different way, something I'm actually passionate about. And just create, you know, that neon sign behind me that says connection for a big reason. I I believe in connection above all else, and I'm like, so how can I create connection in a different way outside of an open house, outside of something I'm tied to physically, where I can do this anywhere? So, if I want to go to, you know, we've got River House. If I want to go out to the river and work for I can still work for the weekend and take the boat out, like And it just kind of clicked. I was like, I need to just start making content about my city, about being passionate about it. My personality is going to show through. It's different than pretty much, you know, I've only seen like two or three other realtors that do this.

Um, and at least in my city, I've only seen two or three that do it. Um, and it's worked out. The last couple of months have been fun. [laughter] Yeah, man. It's it's crazy because that's one of the traps that I find a lot of agents fall victim to is like they struggle so much with consistency because they're trying to do something that they genuinely don't enjoy doing. And it's exhausting. Like and [clears throat] I can speak from experience cuz I think you and I both went through this where you know, for years I my first couple of years of YouTube videos, I number one was trying to be like a YouTube personality and and I changed who I was because I thought you had to be this way on this platform. And so every time I got to I went to record, it just didn't feel authentic. It didn't feel genuine. And I wasn't proud of it.

And I but I just thought like you got to do it anyway, so just like suck it up and get it done. [snorts] And the year that I changed and started being authentically myself and doing it my way, my business blew up. And I had way more fun. It didn't feel like a job. It felt like a passion project. And and everybody started to connect with it. And that's where I think we're we're in this unique industry where so many people are just trying to model others in different markets instead of looking within and saying like, who genuinely am I? Like any person that I've ever seen, you know, there's Shawnee in our group and and she's like an Atlanta woman, big energy, big personality, and she lets that shine through and crushes. Or there's so many different examples of people that I've seen who are just unapologetically themselves and that drives massive business with the people that actually connect with them. And that's the that's the best part is like if you're putting out content that's not you you will attract clients that don't actually connect with you. And then you start dealing with nightmare clients.

It's a lose-lose. You hate it, the people hate it, your business struggles. And so let's start to kind of unpack what that content is because I love watching all of your videos and I genuinely watch them start to finish and I don't give two shits about San Diego. And so but but I'm like it's so interesting. I'm like if I was ever to go there, which I have been and loved it to be honest. It was best fish tacos I've ever had in my life. Um but what are you creating? Like let's walk through this process of maybe what were you creating before? What are you really leaning into now?

Yeah, good question. So before I obviously I do a lot of open houses, so I'm in a lot of different properties. Before I was doing a lot of like property tours where like you know, and the full setup like very professionally dressed, setting the tripod up, having the the gimbal that follows you and the you know, and trying to be super professional and and it's funny because I can speak well and I know how to connect with people and everything, but I'm and you can hear from my vocal inflections and tonality like I'm from the hood. Like I'm not I I'm a hard worker. I am a professional, but I'm not like that buttoned up like you know, let's talk about our 401ks over a golf like morning. Like nah, that's not me, man. And and so that's the type of content I was making.

I was making a lot of property walk-throughs. Um I used to do years ago I used to do this thing called a minute with Matt that actually like very the very beginning of I think video the video era in the social media like started to get some traction, but that content wouldn't work nowadays. It had B-roll and stuff in it. And I you know, I was making content for lack of a better word, I was making content that everybody else makes. That all other realtors. If you look at any realtors Instagram or social media or YouTube, whatever, TikTok.

And I hate to sound like a hater cuz I'm not. I hope everybody eventually finds their stride and what works for them. But it's all the same, man. It's all the same. It's all you know, you're standing in front of a property and the freaking giant text comes in and it's like behind you and it's like I've seen nine of these videos today, man. Like it's very rarely are they shot in a way that is actually impressive. Very rarely are the people letting their personality show through. You know, they're speaking, I think, in a way that they think they're supposed to be perceived as professionals.

Um and I just didn't like it. That's the content I was making. It's funny if you go back and you if you go back in my Instagram, you can actually see where the shift was. It's a very clear like you can scroll down and see, oh, this is when it changed. And literally like two videos before I was, you know, we've been studying, we're in this amazing group, we have all these supporters. I've been studying like different ways to make videos, visual hooks, auditory hooks, etc. And there's a couple of videos where I'm doing like property walk-throughs and in the very beginning shot, I'm like upside down. I'm like laying on a bed or I'm laying on the ground and I'm upside down and I'm like, oh yeah, it's going to make people stop cuz I'm upside down. Why is this guy upside down? It's terrible. It's so terrible. It's so bad. I laugh at it now.

Um and it just wasn't authentic and just wasn't connecting. And I I met somebody, actually. This is very funny. I got invited to a networking event, [snorts] a really high-end networking event here in San Diego with super top producers. Like everybody in the room is is, you know, I think 10 million in productivity minimum uh uh annually and uh the people that we're speaking are are way excess of that, you know, you're talking people that are doing 100 million in productivity a year. And I met somebody that does what I'm doing now in in here in San Diego. Very cool dude, very chill, very open-minded, very non-gatekeeping, very like sat down and had a great like 10-minute talk with me.

And it wasn't super it wasn't like, you know, we didn't have an hour and a half lunch and discuss every single thing, but the 10-minute chat we had really opened my eyes to like his process and why he makes content the way he does and he makes content very similar to what I make. It's focused on North County, San Diego, not I focus more on the city center, that's where I live and I and where I like to, you know, live and operate and do business, so I focus more here. Um but it just opened my eyes to like a different way of looking at content creation and everything and um and he literally told me he goes, "Bro, like you have a great personality. Steal what I'm doing and just do it your way."

And I I fully support that because I tell other people the same thing. When people are like, "Oh, I love what you're doing." I'm like, "Bro, steal it. Steal it and put yours Don't do it one word for word, one for one. Take the idea and make it your own. You know what I mean? Like like we're not reinventing anything here, you know?" Um and and it just clicked with me, man, and I made I made the first video that was like this new style. I talked about seven major development projects that were going on around San Diego and I think it has 30 or 40,000 views now. Um and then I just I just kept going. I was like, "Every day I'm just going to make a video and talk about what I love about this city, either what I love about this and and and here's like the the kicker.

It's all different. It's not exactly the same every single time cuz like I'll talk about San Diego history. I'll talk about San Diego news. The video that I made today is about another San Diego development project. I'll talk about San Diego um events, you know, like I do a Friday post that just talks about here's what's happening for the weekend. Like if you don't have plans, here's what you can go do, you know? I love this city.

[clears throat] We this city it's so nuts when you think about it. This city has the number one sports pub in the United States, had is the number one place to watch the sunset in the United States. It's the most relaxing city on Earth. We have the number two best weather on Earth. Like there's so much about this city that's amazing. And people always talk trash, oh it's so expensive, it's so expensive. It's like yeah, but you get what you pay for. A Camry is a great car, but there's a reason it's 45 grand and a Bentley's 200.

Yeah. San Diego's the Bentley, man. And it's real easy for me to get passionate and talk talk about that Bentley. Mhm. Yeah, man. And And I think that's what I love about it is like you can see the passion come through. And like when you're passionate, that connects with people emotionally. Like that's the At the end of the day with content, the entire goal is to get people to know, like, and trust you and be able to genuinely connect with you on the emotional level. Not surface level, not transactional, but at the emotional level. And anybody that I look up to, anybody that I follow on content, and anybody that's listening, you can resonate and connect with this as well.

Anybody that you enjoy consuming content from, you can tell that they are passionate about what they're sharing, whether it's in a creative space, whether it's in an educational space, whether it's home cooking tips, like whoever you connect with, there's an emotional attachment there because you could tell they love it. And you love it. And that connection is established. But, you know, with that being said, maybe give some insight on what this type of content is. And then I've got a couple questions about the the workflow side because Yeah.

you know, the the average agent that I see that is talking about their city, they're doing it in the same way everybody else is, which is they've got their, you know, they're usually like either walking down a street with somebody filming them talking about something that a chat GPT told them to talk about or they are just sitting in a little office and with not much excitement. Like, what does your content look like? Quick pause. If you're watching this feeling stuck, overwhelmed by all the noise, tired of chasing leads, unsure of how to close consistent deals every month with clients coming directly to you for free, I want you to know something. That's exactly where the agent you're listening to right now was before we started working together. And if you want the same support, the same system, and access to all of my social media and AI training, daily live mastermind calls, and direct mentorship, completely free, no extra split, and no extra cost, click the link in the description to book a call. We'll talk about partnering together so that you could be the next success story that we're telling on my YouTube channel. Now, let's get back into the interview.

Yeah, good question. It's talking head content. Um and to be clear, it was like a natural evolution. So, I'm at my desk now. I have a 120-year-old Victorian. Um sometimes there's quirks with it like, you know, it's old electrical and you know, I'll get glitches in my camera or other weird things just like that. I don't know if you saw that. [laughter] Um uh because this house is 120 years old, but I'm in my I'm in my my office right now. And my phone sits right here on a stand that points right at me.

And for I don't know, two or three years now, uh when I really started dialing in my CRM, which is actually when I joined the Wolf Pack. I was never a CRM guy before that. I would make videos on my phone to send to clients. If I call and they don't answer, I don't send a text, I send a video every single time. If I call and they don't answer. And it sits almost at the same exact angle that I make my talking head videos at. And so, the it just clicked. I'm like, I'm already talking to my phone. I might as well just talk to my phone and instead of talking to one person, talk to everybody, right? So, it's talking head content, right?

Um it's it's very simple to make, man. I go through like um With the green screen app, right? Yeah, I dude, I use CapCut. I use CapCut. Um I edit right in CapCut. It I'm able to um uh you know, remove the background and just put what I want behind it. Um and I it's funny um even the other people in this city that make this content, the similar content to mine, I've had people reference them and and and mention them to me and say that they enjoy my content better.

And I think it's because I allow my personality to shine through. Like I'm I'm loud. I'm a loud person. I accept it. I'm comfortable with who I am. If you don't like loud noises, we're probably not going to be friends. Like I accept it. A lot of these people that are making content about these cities and they're talking about things, they're very monotone. There's not a lot of emotion. There's not a lot of of expression. I'm the opposite. I'm talking to my phone, but I'm in my mind, I'm talking to friends, right? Like I literally put myself in the mindset, I'm like, I'm talking to my friends right now. And like it's just so easy to be so animated and so passionate and expressive, but it's just talking head content, man. I literally like every day when I'm I make a video every day. Every day and sometimes I make two a day. Every day I'll I'll pull First I go to I go just go Google San Diego news and I just look for interesting stuff that has happened. I like to focus on positivity more than negativity, which is difficult because everybody focuses on negativity, so there's a lot more negative news. Um but some of my best videos like uh there's a a Native American woman from San Diego who's got this beauty brand that's uh based off uh Native American knowledge with um acorn oil and stuff like that. Who by the way is amazing. We're developing a relationship now. We're going to see what we can do together. She's amazing.

Like she I open San Diego news and one of like I had to scroll down and I this article was not being blasted on the front page or nothing, but she made the Times 100 list of like most influential beauty products or something. And she got picked up to like so I forget the number, but like a a large number of Ritz-Carlton spas. And I'm just like that's freaking cool, man. Like that is a really cool positive thing to talk about. And so I made a video out about it and it's I think it has 60,000 views now. You know, like I just like supporting cool positive fun stuff and when it when it connects with this city, it's very easy to do because I love this city.

100%. Funny enough, actually, sorry, I'm going to talk over you. I have this tagline saying I love this freaking city. Yeah. And it just naturally came like I didn't plan that branding with ChatGPT and Googling. I didn't plan that. I just said it in a video and then I was like oh, that's it. Like I love this freaking city. That's it. Like I'm just going to end every video like that. Sorry. I talked over you. No, it's it's so cool, man. Like and I think like there's that age-old like it's it's so cliché, but like anybody in the OG days of content like the narrative was like you want to be the mayor of your town. Like you just want to be somebody that's a local resource that talks about your market because what I find is that the the average agent is so consumed by lead generation that their entire thought process every single time they put out a piece of content is can this generate leads without realizing that the name of the game is not leads, it's attention.

And if you get enough attention, the leads follow. The leading indicator of leads is attention. It's mass top of funnel people to get to know you even exist. But if you don't have people that know you exist, when you put out a lead generation focused video like how to buy a house, how to sell a house, nobody's listening. Nobody cares, right? And so that's where I think you've done so well at being able to say, I just want people to know who I am. I'm already passionate about this. I'm going to share it. And the best lesson that I hope people take away from this is what you said about just talking to a friend.

Because the content that connects the best is when like people have to realize that even though you're sharing a video with thousands of people, there is one individual on the other side of that screen that's listening. You have to speak to them. And usually it's your ideal target avatar, somebody that would enjoy working with you. And so oftentimes people are creating content thinking that it's for the masses, but in reality it's for one person.

And that's where I always like to use the analogy that like if you look at anybody that you really connect with, maybe it's Tony Robbins or maybe it's Gary V or anybody that you look up to and you listen to, you always feel like they're speaking directly to you. Even though they're speaking to millions of people. Why? Because you're their target avatar. So, when they're recording that video, they feel like they're speaking to you, not this huge audience. And that's what I love that you've done about this to allow that personality to come through, because that's one of the things I think people struggle with the most. And so, with that being said, it one of the things that I love aside from the fact that you're super genuine in your content, is your consistency. Which is what so many people struggle with is the finally find a format that works for them, but it's it they have no workflow to the point where it's an exhaustive effort to record. So, maybe take us through a week. You could you kind of mentioned CapCut, but like from start to finish, what would a week look like in terms of recording, editing, finding the video topics, to then staying consistent?

Yeah, uh very good question. Consistency is like the hobgoblin of of achievement, right? Like, [laughter] it's so funny cuz even myself I've struggled with consistency so much in the past. And I have I have mental health issues. Like, I have wild ADHD. Like, insanely like, to the point where the the doctors are literally like, "This is like up there." Like, it's intense. Um uh and so, like, I struggle with consistency probably even more than other people.

Um I found as far as consistency goes, keeping everything super simple is very important. You also have to find what works for you, right? There's all different types of like time management strategies and productivity strategies. And like, I used to try to batch content, record like four or five videos at once, and then edit them. And to be honest, that just doesn't work for me. It it works for some people, great for them. It I I think I just have too intense of ADHD, and I get distracted, and I have too much going on where I'm just like, I don't remember which video and blah blah blah, whatever, and I don't have a giant team behind me yet to keep me focused.

So, for me, I literally make a a new video every day, and I start the process every single day. So, like, I dumbed it down. I dumbed it down. All of my business comes from two avenues. Well, I get some from my sphere and referrals, but really all of my business comes from open houses and social media, and and that's it. And so, in my mind, I'm like, those are the only two things that you need to focus on, nothing else. I think a lot of agents, when it comes to consistency, a lot of agents allow themselves to be distracted by too many things. I need to be on every single call, I need to be on every single training, I need to door knock and do open houses and cold call and make content. So, no, man.

Keep it real simple. Keep it real simple. My day is literally organized in two pieces and two pieces only. I have the mornings where I create content and the afternoons where I connect with people. That's it. That's it, man. So, I wake up at 5:30 in the morning, uh which is not quite as early as you wake up, I know, but I [laughter] I don't know and to be honest, I don't know if I want to push it more than 5:30. But, I wake up at 5:30, I take care of myself first, because if I don't take care of myself, I can't show up for everybody else. So, I read, I don't touch my phone for the first half an hour to an hour that I'm awake. I read, I drink coffee, I drink water, hydrate first, I start with an uh apple cider vinegar and and lemon uh water, um and then drink coffee, feed my mind, make sure I work out, go into my day physically fit, mentally fit, taking care of myself, meditate before I go into my day with affirmations.

And then, content is super simple, man. Uh number one, I check the news first. I I literally Google important or impactful San Diego news. I just Google it. I don't use AI, anything. I go to different news sites. I look for anything that is positive first. I really want to support really cool positivity first. Um and then if I can't find anything that's important and positive first, then I'll look for just like city news, new developments. Developments are always like a a good one to make a video about, developments, restaurant openings, bar openings, anything that's like that I would be interested in because then I know that's going to connect with people that I'm going to connect with, right?

And then from there, it's very simple, man. I have um I use AI. Uh actually, I'll add another tidbit. I also have an Instagram folder that I highly recommend anybody that's out there that's making content. Make an Instagram folder and call it R and D. And R and D doesn't stand for research and development. It stands for rip off and duplicate, okay? Don't reinvent the wheel. It's already done. Like and keep in mind like I said before, don't do it one for one. Don't be a jerk and like recreate word for word the video that somebody else did.

Don't do that. But if somebody else made a cool video about a cool topic, you can recreate that video in your authentic way in your own voice, and that's okay, man, because the thing is there's so many people, and there's people that that person connected with because the way they said it is going to connect with them, and then the way you say it is going to connect with other people. You're going to find your tribe.

So, I will check the news, and then if I can't find anything in the news, I'll go to my R and D folder. When I'm engaging in social media, and I see something that's cool or there might be an like a topic there, I save it to that folder. And then that's where I go back to for my ideas. Um I also have like I have a running note on my iPhone. Like if I'm just out in the in the world and I see something like, you know, when I'm walking or out doing appointments, I'll be like, "Oh, that's that's a video topic, right?" So, like I have those three avenues that I'll get my ideas from.

Um and then it's very simple. I have a AI create everything for me, man. I uh I have very dialed in prompts about how I want the script, how I want the the descriptions and captions and everything. Um I have my own communication style already dialed in thanks to you. Your program helped me to develop my entire like literally I have a document just called my ad copy and communication marketing communication style. I have another document that's my target avatar so that I know who I'm targeting.

And then I have my brand guide, my entire brand guide and so I attach all three of these to every single document so that the content is being created in my authentic voice and being targeted at the right people that I'm going to connect with, right? Here's a kicker, a little ninja pro tip that I think a lot of people aren't doing. I don't use that script word for word. I modify that script in my own voice. I'll take that script, I'll read through it a couple times and then I retype and rewrite and fix things to make it sound even more like myself cuz AI is not going to be perfect and also that's where the personality comes in.

Like yeah, you can use AI as a tool to like get you 90% of the way, 80% of the way, but you got to dial it in yourself because that's where the authenticity is going to come through. In that video about Ruth Ann is the woman behind Native Beauty is the brand that Native American brand. She bought a building in the Gaslamp here in San Diego. She's the first Native American to ever buy a building in in the Gaslamp in San Diego. And in part of the video I say she bought the building, y'all. She's killing it. Like and that was just like off the cuff.

Like I just I just go off script and just riff and let my build my personality come through. But so I use AI, I dial in everything, I then refine it per like manually refine it myself. And then I record right here at my desk I on my phone. I have an iPhone 16 Pro Max. I don't use a fancy camera. I do have The funny part is I have fancy cameras, but I use my phone. [laughter] It's so easy. Um and yes, I have lights and stuff like that to make sure that I'm lighted well, but in reality, you just need a phone and an idea. That's That's it. It's all you need. I record on my phone. I edit in CapCut. I edit myself. I know you're going to hate me for saying that. I'm not at the point yet, I think, where I'm ready to give up control of the editing to an editor, and I know that's another leverage uh like a leverage roadblock or something that I'm going to hit probably pretty soon.

Uh but also turnaround to me is very important. First of all, the reality is like finding an idea, making the video, and getting it posted, when it's a short-form talking head video, I might not even eventually even need an editor for that. Because in reality, from the from having no idea to being posted, an hour to an hour and a half tops. Tops. Absolutely tops. Right? Like it's so easy because the editing is so minimal.

And and you're just you're not doing a lot of crazy tricks. You want your authentic authentic authentic voice and personality to show through. So literally, refine everything, record it, throw it into CapCut, throw some overlays, you know, whatever I'm talking about, I want it to pop up behind me, throw some overlays, duplicate the layer with myself, remove the background, it's done. That's it. Post it. And then the other side of that is like something I didn't realize, I think, when my social media started to take off is how much time you have to spend engaging. Yeah.

Because that's where the magic actually happens. You're sitting there connecting with people, making comments, responding to messages. And that's something that I still struggle with. Like I've got I'll I'll you know, dude, I'll do I'll have a video that'll do 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 views and next thing you know I have 100 new followers and all these messages and all these comments and it's like, all right, I got to spend 2 hours just sitting here just responding to content, but that leads perfectly into my afternoon block. I create the content, post it in the morning, go have my lunch, recharge a little bit over lunch, and then in my afternoon block, I'm connecting with people, I'm sending messages, I'm responding to DMs, I'm setting appointments, and literally all my afternoon is for is for connecting with people, usually DMs, my CRM, I check check my CRM daily and see what I need to follow up with, and then going on appointments, you know, meeting people out in the world and that's it. And that's the simplicity that it takes to be consistent.

I look at it I need to do I really need to do three things. I need to create content, connect with people, and go on appointments, and that's it. That's it, man. 100%. So, if you dial if you really dial in what you're focused on and don't allow yourself to be distracted, it's funny, I'll get texts or calls from other Wolfpack agents so they're like, hey buddy, why weren't you on this call? And I'm like, cuz that call didn't have anything to do with my business. Or I'll log onto a call and I'll be on it for 5 minutes and I'll realize, oh, this doesn't have anything to do with my business, I'm going to log off. People allow themselves to be distracted, especially newer agents. They've shiny object syndrome, right? They're like, you know, you see an agent on a call who's doing 100 deals a year from cold calling, and then you all of a sudden want to cold call when it's nothing you've ever wanted to do before in your life and you're like, why why? Stop getting distracted, man. Like, focus on what you want to focus on, dial it into the nines, and keep it simple. That's it, man. Make content, like for anybody that wants to make content out there, structure your day like I do. Make content in the morning because it's the it's con like you want the thing that you're going to have the most mental resistance to to be the first thing you got to do, right? Like so make the content in the morning and then in the afternoon, this is going to sound bad maybe, but in the afternoon it's so easy to just sit on your phone and respond to comments. That is not hard at all.

And that's all I do, man. Sit on the phone, respond to comments, follow, you know, check my CRM, see who's in there with notes and who I need to follow up and set appointments and then go show properties. That's so cool and and I think like, you know, it's so powerful even just talking about your your process for ideation. When you really boil it down, there are multi-billion-dollar companies whose entire job is to create the news for that day.

And they've done the work for you. Like it's not like we need to come up with this innovative strategy of how to talk about something nobody else has ever talked about before. We are literally just looking at what other people have done all the hard work to find and then putting our own authentic take on it. Like it's just that simple and and I like that you also talked about engagement because I think a lot of people have this tendency to feel like social media happens to magically be this one-way street where you're looking for all this engagement, but you're not giving any.

And that doesn't work, right? If somebody's talking to you in person, you're not just going to sit there and not say anything back. You're going to communicate. Like that is communication in its simplest form and that's how real estate is is being able to boil it down to real conversations and like you said, you know, being able to I always think an agent should do some form of lead generation for 3 hours a day. Well, the alternative of cold calling for 3 hours versus an hour to post a video and 2 hours to, you know, sit in a comfy couch and engage, I'll choose that any day. And the fact that it's not that difficult says a lot. So I love that, dude. And and so, you know, I've I've seen you get a [ __ ] ton of comments and and that kind of leads to How do you find people are engaging with you to the point where they become a real estate focused conversation?

Because sometimes what I see is people start to put out content, they'll get a little bit of engagement, but they can't quite get it to the point where it's like, "Okay, how do I If I'm just talking about my city, how do I weave in the fact that I'm a real estate agent? Or how do I get them to the point of becoming a client? What's that journey look like or has it looked like for you?" Yeah, uh very good question, right?

Because I think there's not an obvious bridge there, right? Especially like if I'm talking about like, you know, some random piece of history about San Diego. Like I made a a video the other day about the first mission, which is how San Diego got its name and everything. Like how does that translate like, you know, this this priest 200 and something whatever years ago. How does that translate to a real estate conversation now?

First and foremost, I like to just put small, really small CTAs in my in my videos. And I have to be very conscious about it. I don't want it to be super salesy or pitchy. I just put things in there like, "Hey, if you, you know, if you love this city as much as I do and want to make it home, there's a link in my bio, you know?" Stuff like that, where it's literally like as simple and and chill of a sentence as as uh possible.

Um but then you also have to look for other opportunities, right? And that's I think having, you know, we God, we've talked about this on one of our mastermind calls and not we personally, I mean we as a the Wolfpack group. Um looking for the opportunities, right? Like when you're training your brain to look for sales opportunities as a new agent, you have to realize that opportunities can come from anywhere. Like you have, you know they can come from standing in line at the grocery store, sitting at a bar. It doesn't just have to be an open house. Like you have to look for these opportunities. So I do the same thing in in comments and and messages and stuff like that. First I do use ManyChat. I use automation to make sure that anytime I have a new follower they get a message from me.

It's not a salesy message man. It's it's a super short either or. It just says something like hey thanks for following along are you just here for the content or are you thinking about buying or selling in San Diego? Like that's it man. And I don't use any flows after that. Every single message that comes after that I manually respond to. So when that message goes out it's funny 98% 99% of the responses are like oh I'm just here for the content. So I thank them. Hey man thanks I'm glad you enjoyed the content. I hope it helps you enjoy our city a little bit more. Can you do me a favor? If you hear of anybody who's thinking about buying or selling who you think would like my vibe please send them my way.

Psychologically people are afraid to ask for for favors. But in reality if you study communication asking somebody for a favor instead of doing a favor for somebody or instead of offering help asking somebody for a favor actually really connects them with you. Like you create a bond and a rapport. So I'm creating connection by asking for this favor and then I'm just being authentic man. And wherever those messages go I don't act salesy in it. I've had super long conversations with strangers in my DMs about the most random stuff.

Literally was talking to somebody yesterday about downtown Chula Vista and like these old places that used to exist and aren't there and then made me think about a memory from when I was in high school and there you know you just I just bring authenticity to it but also ask right? Like I you have to ask for the business, you know? Um you know, hey, you know, are you are you you know, if people will put oh, I have a house already. Okay, how long you been there? Is that you know, is that is that your forever home in your dream neighborhood?

Like let's talk about that, you know? So I I think it's just having authentic genuine conversations with people, reminding people that this is what you do, right? Like we we can't be undercover agents. Like even if I'm making a video that's about San Diego, I still put that small reminder in there that I'm an agent. And then engaging with people and asking for the opportunities, right? I I got my first lead. I remember getting my first lead from social media that actually turned into a contract, right?

And just being like oh, this is like this easy? Like [laughter] this like this was just a natural conversation on social media. Like and it just turned into a contract. I'm like, okay, how do I replicate that? Just have natural conversations with people. Don't be salesy. People can smell it a mile away. Don't be super pitchy. Don't talk about yourself. Ask questions and just engage. And that's it, you know, look for where you can provide value. I I've got a a new agent. Actually, I posted in school.

Uh I don't know if you saw my post from yesterday in school. Somebody had asked yesterday on on our call about a unresponsive leads. And I have a very authentic way that I approach unresponsive leads, right? Um And the lead that I did it with yesterday literally was like a lead from Instagram that had sat down with multiple realtors and did not want to sit down with me. When I asked for the appointment the first time, they were like, you know, hey, is there any pre-qualification that we can do beforehand? Like I'm in sales also. I understand discovery calls are like important, but also like I've been he literally said these words. He's like, I've been on so many first dates with realtors lately. He goes, "I've just I just don't really want to meet another one." And I sent a video message back and I just said like explained my approach. I was like, "Hey man, I can send you a buyer's guide. I can send you client testimonials and reviews. I go, but here's the thing. This is how I operate. This is where my mindset is.

And if that work if that sounds good to you, we should grab coffee. If it doesn't sound good to you, we're probably not going to be a good fit. So, you can tell me to screw off, right? That authenticity like literally bringing that approach to it landed me the appointment. He goes, "You know what? I respect it. Let's get coffee." Now we're showing properties this weekend. [laughter] It's It's just you just be authentic and connect with people and look for ways to be of value to people, you know?

Like don't don't ask for anything like don't ask for a commitment without offering something, you know? Like even those people that I'm asking the favor to send people that need to move my way, I'm offering the content and the knowledge about the city first. I'm like, "Hey, here's this really cool thing that I do. I hope you enjoy it. I hope it helps you enjoy the city a little more. Now will you do me this favor? You know?

So cool, dude. And And I think, you know, that kind of leads to one of the things that I was genuinely curious about because you've got such a really you've got such an extensive history in terms of the skills that you've stacked over the course of being in this industry that I'm really curious to get your insider or what your opinion is on how communication has helped with your content because you are, you know, we've got another video coming about this, but you are a master communicator. You're incredible at understanding the human language and being able to be persuasive in a value-driven way and and being able to genuinely connect with people, not taking these like super salesy rigid scripts, but how do you find your experience with traditional real estate has kind of helped you in this new era of what you're doing on the modern side.

Yeah, that's a very good question because uh I think a lot of times people think that DMs and social media like that the normal rules don't apply, but they do translate. They don't apply one-for-one, but they do translate. And before I go into that, let me say thank you first so much. Those are very words. And what you say about my ability to communicate, I want people out there to know it's not like God-given ingrained. I had to work really hard at it. I'm from the hood.

Like I grew up very poor in a very you know, hard-headed environment. When I got into this business, I did not communicate the way that I communicate [laughter] now. And it was if you would have heard me 10 years ago, it you would have been like [laughter] uh it was a lot of work, man. It was a lot of work to develop the skills. I knew that I had the ability to communicate with people kind of inherently. I'm personable and I will talk to people, but I didn't have I didn't have like a like The way I look at at scripting and frameworks and I like to call them frameworks instead of scripting cuz I think scripting like it's a very old-school thing that a lot of people don't understand really and doesn't work in today's day and age.

I look at all these different language tools and communication tools as just tools in a tool belt. And the more that I have, the more equipped I am to have a productive conversation with somebody. Every time I talk to an agent about communication, I say, "Look, your job communicating with people is to is to be efficient with your time, especially if you're in an open house with 30 visitors. Like dude, how are you going to know who you should focus on and who you shouldn't focus on? And don't get me wrong, I love the the nosy neighbor who's lived in the neighborhood for 40 years and knows everything, those conversations are great, but there's no need that you can serve there.

That's the bottom line. There's not a need you can serve, and our job is to have conversations to look for needs we can serve. Our job is not to sell people things they don't need or want. Our job is to look for needs we can serve, uncover needs in people that we can serve, and then be valuable to them accomplishing what they're trying to accomplish. That's it, right? The problem is so many times people lack the skill set to communicate that. You might know what you want to say or know, you know, what how you feel, but you don't know how to put it into words effectively, right? So, I spent many, many, many, many years in literally in a in a communication class Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 I think it was 7:00 doesn't matter. It's an hour every single morning. So, it was a lot of years focusing on this.

That translates into social media because psychologically the basis of communication is still the same. Mhm. Like, whether it's a DM or video or face-to-face conversation or phone call, psychologically the basis of communication is still the same. My like, we'll take my script for uh um reestablishing a connection with a a an unresponsive lead. It's simple, man. Hey Mike, it's Matt. I haven't heard from you in a little bit. I just want to make sure that I didn't accidentally offend you or drop the ball with you in any way.

Super simple, right? That works over a phone call, over a video message, over a DM. It works it's the same thing. It works very, very well. And it works because I'm not pointing a finger at them. I'm not blaming them. I'm putting the finger on me, actually, allowing them a guilt-free excuse or way out to acknowledge like, "Hey, man, I'm sorry. It's not you. Life's been hectic." We all know life's hectic. Like, it's an easy thing, right? So, the communication that I've developed and worked on and built in face-to-face conversations and phone conversations, I did a lot of cold calling for a long time. I don't do very much anymore, but the basis of the communication, the rules of the communication are still the same. They still transfer.

100%. I love that, man. And and so, you know, as we kind of pull this together, that's what, you know, I admire about you is that you, you know, I always say that the most expensive thing you can own is a closed mind. And it's it's incredible to see that you've been able to not only excel after years of relentless hard work with one side of business, but you're not getting in your own way to the point where you're saying, that's the only way I'm going to keep doing it. You're open-minded to be able to say, "Hey, maybe this skill set can translate over here and and let's give it a shot." it doesn't work out, cool, but the work works if you do the work. And you've done the work, and now you've been able to see that you've got these two consistent, predictable pillars of content that the best part is, don't only work for just you, they work for anybody who's willing to do them. And so, with that being said, I'd love for you to kind of touch on into the fact that you and I are partners. And if people are struggling in their business, and they want to just go to a crystal clear, proven roadmap of exactly what to do to take their business to the next level, they could partner with you and myself and who enable to get our help for that. So, ultimately, what does it look like when somebody partners with you? Because I know you've got a huge heart, you genuinely care, and we just touched on the tip of the iceberg for the strategies that you actually have access to in your toolkit.

Yeah, very very important to talk about mindset, I think first, right? One of the things that drew me to the Wolfpack in general is not not specifically people. And now that I'm in, there are people that I've gravitated more you know, you and I work very closely together now. I'm very very happy for that. But you know, you see in the traditional model of real estate a lot of times very old-minded thinking, very close-minded thinking, very gatekeeping thinking.

We are not about that here. We are not about gatekeeping. We are not about close-mindedness or oh, I'm not I'm not going to share the secret sauce with you. I'll share the secret sauce with everybody because you know what? When you put your spin on it, it's now your secret sauce and it's completely different than my secret sauce. And we're going to have a different vibe in a tribe. And somebody's going to connect with you more than me because you said the thing a little bit different. You said it in your way. So, I love first of all that we have all of these Value Stacks, myself, you, all these other people in our organization that offer so many different things.

Michael yesterday on on the YouTube like he dropped so much knowledge on YouTube like masterclass level stuff that people would pay thousands of dollars to know. And he's just like, "Hey man, it's all free here. Just go do this." is paying the thousands of dollars to learn that. That's the craziest part. He's in all this high-level coaching and gives it all the way for free. 100 and that says so much about the mindset of our group. That's like and I know I'm rambling, but I got to focus on that.

When you are around the right-minded people, everything becomes so much easier for you. And you know what I found was at a traditional brokerage, I hit a a ceiling of productivity and I was like, "I need to go further." There was nobody that was willing to like share or or or brainstorm together or mastermind or you know, say, "Hey, this is what's working." This is why I've loved the Wolf Pack so much. Uh partnering with me and partnering with you is simple, man. Find me on Instagram. My Instagram is my name, Matt Thornburg. You can find my phone number and just give me a call. My my communication is always open. I love helping other people.

It's funny, you know, I don't want to be in production in the next couple of years. Not because I'm tired of doing production, but because I actually love like when I'm helping people communicate better and have better language uh uh skills and have better conversations, I get so much more fulfillment about out of that nowadays. I love that when I get somebody who comes back to me, they're like, "Dude, I crushed this appointment today and I I did what you said to do and like the conversation was so much easier." Like I love that, right? So, if you have questions about social media, about about how to communicate better, just find me and reach out, man. Let's have a casual conversation about where your business is at, where you're feeling that you're not supported, right? This is what I think is very important. You know, I think agents will choose brokerages for the wrong reasons.

I think you should choose a brokerage, the real reason you should choose a brokerage, number one is like are you getting the support and the tools and the systems to do what you want to do? Not to do what everybody else tells you you should do, but to do what you want to do, right? Look for a company that gives you those three things that also has the culture and the mindset that is right. That's it. That's And and I got I'm going to sound so douchey here. I don't think for for an agent that wants to be successful in this day and age, in our technology-driven business, in our social media-driven business, and in our AI-driven business, I get recruitment phone calls multiple times a week. I haven't seen another company or organization that provides what we provide. And I I hate to say that like I sound like I'm recruiting. I don't want to recruit, to be honest. I want to attract. If you're not happy, not feeling supported, you're not thinking that you get your frustrated You shouldn't be frustrated in this business. This business is easy when you have the right support. If you're frustrated, you're not getting the right support, mentorship, or guidance. That's it.

This business is easy. Right? 100% dude. guess I should rephrase that. It's not easy, it's simple. Yeah. It's hard, but it's simple, right? It is you does require the hard work. Um so yeah man, uh specifically, I know we alluded to my communication stuff, we're going to talk about that later, but I have a landing page thornburghomegroup.com/loree language of real estate. You can go there and literally get the call info. You can go to my Instagram and connect with me. Go to my Instagram and steal my video ideas. If you're in Chicago, look at the videos I'm making and make them about Chicago.

Yeah. Dude. We we share our knowledge here because we want other people to succeed. I firmly believe that we go further together. We all go further together. You don't know what you don't know until somebody else enlightens you to it. And that's what we do at the Wolfpack. We enlighten each other. We open each other's minds and perspectives. We show each other how things can be done and then we support each other to go do it.

Like you said, Mike's paying thousands of dollars for his YouTube coaching and he's giving it away for free. You know, I do I do this call every Tuesday morning. I don't get paid for that call. I don't I I don't get anything out of that call except for fulfillment of sharing my knowledge with other people and then them telling me, "Dude, I crushed this conversation because of what you taught me about how to communicate."

Like 100% I want other people to succeed. It's amazing. And and that's what I love about it is no dude, like it's it's incredible to see that you, you know, you have such a big heart and and people have that conscious choice. And like you say, like struggling is a choice. Like we've helped so many people in that situation radically transform their business by just giving them clarity, confidence of exactly what to do. And you know, the coolest part is cuz nobody really knows, but some of the stuff I'm working on for our new training is going to be on a completely different capacity. And again, that's just because we always want to stay one step ahead of the curve. And so, guys, with that being said, per usual, all of Matt's content and his calendar is linked below. And have the conversation. Explore if it's good fit. If it is, great. If it's not, totally okay. But at least have that dialogue to explore is there a better way that you could be building your business and having a heck of a lot more fun while doing it. So, with that being said, Matt, make sure you guys check out the next video we're going to do together on communication because that will transform everything that you do.

But dude, thank you so much again for just sharing everything and being such an open book as always. Always, man. You're very welcome. I love our conversations. I love the value it brings to people. And like you said, my calendar link is in the description. If you're not feeling fulfilled or you're feeling frustrated in this business, dude, grab a half an hour time on my calendar. We'll have a very casual, no pressure chat. At the end of it, you're going to walk away with more information, which is never a bad thing, and you're either going to find out there's a better path and maybe, you know, we can start building a plan for you to get where you want to be, or you're going to leave with some more free, helpful information. Neither one of those things is going to hurt, man.

Grab a time to chat. There you go. Guys, with that being said, make sure you like, comment, subscribe so you don't miss another one, and we'll see you in the next video.
