You might wonder why the story isn't a lot more personal to Alan, and
more specific to the technical history and details of the product. And that
raises an interesting point: Sometimes, writing about the technology
history of the company, its principles, and its customers can work as well
as, or better, than writing about, say, the plot points of Alan's journey to
invent a way to brew a superior cup of coffee.
In this case, I think the way they wrote it was a wise choice. AeroPress is
not a personality-driven product. It's remarkably low-tech (although it
does involve aerodynamic engineering). Yet it is, fundamentally, a
technology-driven product. The inventor is not secretive. The details that
could have gone into this story on the website it it were more personal,
were published for all to see in a Fast Company magazine interview in
2014.
But for marketing purposes, I think the company made the calculated
decision that the track record of Alan's inventions were what would build
the greatest amount of confidence in people browsing the website. Not
Alan's personal dissatisfactions about how coffee was made, before
AeroPress. And I believe they made the right choice.
And, to be sure, it is still much more personal than stories on most
websites.
Check out the Mr. Coffee website and see if you can find any kind of
story about the company, the product, the people behind it. I couldn't.
Maybe you're thinking, "Well a truly big company wouldn't do
something like that."
Maybe not. But hovering near the top of the list of the world's most
valuable companies is Apple, formerly known as Apple Computer. Steve
Jobs isn't part of their marketing today, but he made himself central to
the voice and the identity of the company for a couple decades.
And for some die-hard Apple fans, Jobs is still the persona of the
company, years after his passing.
So, if your company could benefit from more identification with a
personality or a persona-and most companies could-and you have an
invention story to tell, then consider putting more personal and technical
details in your invention story. It will strengthen your pitch and / or your
sales copy.