Baseball has its major leaguers. They count for more in sports
conversations than the baseball players in the one-step-lower AAA
leagues.
Hollywood has its A-Listers. You read about those people on the gossip
sites, and see them more often than not in blockbuster movies.
We seem to like to pretend that, aside from superstars like Nobel Prize
Winners and Hollywood A-Listers, "everyone else" is equal. As Stevie
Wonder sings, "No one is better than I, and I know I'm just an average
guy." Most people don't like to admit they constantly measure the worth
of others and conclude they are superior or inferior to other people.
Unfortunately, there's something in the human brain that is constantly
preoccupied with status. Seems it can't be trained out of us. There's even
a phrase for this phenomenon at the everyday level: "Keeping up with
the Joneses."
And, when it comes to persuasion, it's important to note: Regardless of
what we're "supposed" to think and believe..
People do respond eagerly to otters to improve their status. Whether it s
fancy cars, or degrees from prestigious schools, or expensive watches, or
simply being recognized as Employee of the Month, we all crave
recognition-and the opportunity to rank higher in how we are regarded
by others.
In other words—improved status.
Advertising man Max Sackheim understood this human craving so very
well. An immigrant from Eastern Europe in the early 1900s, he knew
first-hand how not speaking English well would handicap a person in
America. Particularly, how poor English would crush their hopes of
upward mobility in society.
Today, it's less of an issue than it was at the start of the last century. But
at that time, for millions of recent immigrants to America who wanted
social acceptance in their new country, learning to speak "educated"
English was an urgent priority.
In the 1910s, Sackheim wrote a mail-order ad that ended up lasting 40
years. No one else could write an ad for this home-study course that
would sell more than Sackheim's-and many of the best tried.