pay close attention to "what the tribe thinks," if for no other reason than
to dutifully do the exact opposite of what is expected and approved.
Most people, though, are simply concerned with not being criticized or
doubted by others for "not being normal." Especially by the other people
who are most important to them: family members, friends, important
people in the community, as well as peers and people they look up to in
their trade, business or profession.
That's why this kind of story about negativity from other people is so
powerful. The example you're about to read is for someone who is
starting their own business, and the pressure brought to bear by people
in their tribe.
Maybe the hardest thing about starting your own business is the
full weight of comments from other people. Most people are
anything but supportive. Unless you grew up in
an
entrepreneurial family, you're likely to hear comments from
parents like "Why don't you get your head out of the clouds and
go get a job?" Jealous friends will kid you or sometimes just shake
their heads in pity. The most important thing you can do at a time
like this is find people who will support you as you get the plane
off the ground.
This story could open up the mind of a prospect who is scared about, or
feels harassed by, the pressures others are exerting as the prospect
contemplates starting a new business. It would work equally well for
someone who has just started a new business-especially their first one.
In that situation, a prospect is entering uncharted territory. They can use
all the encouragement and support they can get. And, they would like to
get validation and reassurance to keep confidence as high, and doubts as
low, as possible.
If you were selling a book encouraging people who want to start their
own business, or, if you were coaching new business owners, or, if you
had a support group or mastermind for the same kind of people, this
story could be an important part of your sales message. This kind of
story all but shouts out: "Look here for the support you've been trying to
find!"
To develop a story like this, you need to have information about the kind