Well, imagine if you had a pair of gloves that only covered three fingers
on each hand, but didn't cover your thumbs or your index fingers. They
would be exposed to the bitter cold. You could get frostbite on your
thumb and finger, even with your gloves on.
That's what we thought about this important form of protection, so we
added two coverages to the policy. Now, just like with a full glove, you
are protected in five ways."
Because it is a metaphor, it doesn't explain all the details or even the
reason for the change. But somehow, it makes sense. If you use a
metaphor, make sure it's simple and easy to understand, like this one
was.
A good metaphor uses images and is simple to visualize, and thus
understand. Like when you talk about a glove that leaves your thumb
and first finger exposed to the cold. Anyone who's ever worn a glove in
the cold can quickly visualize and understand that.
And when you get it right, your metaphor gets you over the hump of
untamiliarity with your prospect. And sometimes-like when you are
making just a few changes to what people are used to, but your product
or service is still largely the same—a metaphor is all you need.
Other times, though, when the differences are greater, you need more.
That was the situation I found Abacus Travel in a few decades ago. They
had an excellent business-to-business travel service. But the quality of
their service alone did not get them new business from cold prospects.
Why? They had the unique problem and advantage of being one-of-a-
kind. As a result, people who didn't already know them wouldn't
quickly understand what they did.
And because of that, it was tough for them to get new clients, except by
referral. (Their current clients loved them, so trust and enthusiasm made
referrals very effective. But there weren't enough referrals for Abacus to
grow the business the way they wanted.)
By the way, it wasn't that anything they did as a business was bizarre. It
was just
unexpected enough so that people needed some mental
preparation before they could appreciate the breadth and depth of
Abacus's array of services.