when you were selling it. There are, to be sure, people known in the
trade as "serial refunders." Almost always they make up a small portion
of total customers. But most customers will only use a guarantee when
they legitimately believe what they bought is not worth it.
So the question becomes, how do you tell your prospects about your
guarantee? Again, people often worry about what you'll do for them if
something goes wrong.
A tentative or bland guarantee usually doesn't go far enough to calm
those fears. To really reassure your prospect, you need to pull out all the
stops and make it seem like there is no risk whatsoever for the prospect.
Legendary copywriter John Carlton put together this high-powered Story
About It You Want A Refund that all but obliterates any hesitation in
seriously interested prospect. It's for a two-video package of golf
instruction:
"Smith's Guaranteed Lower Golf Score Deal." You can use your
credit card. The cost for this compact 2-video lesson is just $49
(plus $5 shipping and handling), and you have a Double
Guarantee from me (the first time I've ever offered something like
this):
Guarantee #1: Order Smith's video package... take up to a FULL
YEAR to learn it... and see if it doesn't radically lower your golf
score. If you don't agree, for any reason at all, that these amazing
secrets aren't everything I've led you to believe they are, simply
return the video for a 100% refund of your purchase price, no
questions asked.
Guarantee #2: Watch these lessons, go out and hit a bucket of
range balls to "get it down," and then go play golf. If you don't
drop serious strokes from your game... in fact, if you don't have
the best round of your life... I insist you send the video back.
You'll not only get a 100% refund... but I will also send you
another $10 on top of that, out of my own pocket, just for your
trouble. I am guaranteeing, with my own money, that these
secrets will have you shooting like a pro... almost overnight!
This is an industrial-strength guarantee story. The copywriter knows his
audience and knows what he's doing. I happen to know Carlton