CERTIFICATION STORIES
Certification stories are about how some reputable expert, authority or
agency has certified your product, service, or a particular skill.
We're all familiar with a number of these certifications. Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) certifications and the Good Housekeeping Seal of
Approval are well known. When it comes to beet, you can get USDA
Prime, Choice, or Select. I'm not sure what these certifications mean, but I
believe Prime is better than Choice, and Choice is better than Select. Meat
marketers and restaurants use these certifications to brag about their
products.
Even a degree from a college or university—especially a prestigious one
—serves as a personal certification. When people see a diploma on the
wall from a highly-ranked school and the diploma includes the words
"with distinction" or "magna cum laude,", people assume the person
who got that degree is very smart (whether they actually are or not).
And one set of certifications that took me a long time to see them for
what they were: Entertainment industry certifications. Academy Award
winner. Grammy nominee. Inductee in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
These are very glamorous and powerful designations. But, at the end of
the day, they are just high-level certifications from committees of peers in
a particular industry.
And don't forget the critics. Actors and directors love to bash the critics,
but the entertainment companies lean on them heavily for certification
—when their reviews are good. For example, streaming channels often set
aside a whole string of programs in a category called "Critically
Acclaimed."
So how do certifications fit into your own persuasion efforts?
Mentioning a certification in a story adds credibility to the point that the
person, skill, service or product stacks up to everything you have
claimed it is. A certification story can be as short as a sentence. But
somehow, even a sentence has more persuasive impact than when the
certification is listed as a bullet point, like a component on a data sheet.
For example, in a résumé or capabilities statement for a software
developer,