Howdy. Today, I want to talk about the two things that you need to keep in mind when you're doing AI go-to-market. And which is a weird phrase, by the way, because it means that it's different than regular go-to-market, but the reason that we get this all wrong, the reason that you see a bunch of really new providers of data tools, go-to-market technology, is they're just trying to take the old average way of go-to-market and add AI. Which just means that the competition. So, this is like mostly what AI go-to-market is has meant. There's a bunch of garbage that you now have to compete with. So, the attentional landscape is getting harder and harder. And there's many different ways to approach this problem. Some people, my my good friend Dale, he sends donut empty donut boxes and says, "Hey, join me." It's like I I ate these before we could talk. And that is one way that you can fight It's like an example of a way that you can compete in the attention economy. Cuz a lot not a lot of people are going to do it. It's like funny and interesting and and you know, the amount of people that have seen that is also low. But the problem with all of those types of and that that's like the best in class of these types of tactics is that they all get worse the more people do them. And so, you always have to find an edge. That's my Substack on the edge. But there's a better way to think about this, and that is working backwards from the message. And there's two pieces about how to work backwards from the message. The first is you have to figure out where you have valuable asymmetric information. And so, if you don't want to try to compete in the attention game, and you know, a lot of companies do this because it's a scalable way to be like, "Hey, free AirPods. I'll give you AirPods for a meeting. Please, I beg you, please meet me." Um if you don't want to do that, and I don't think you should, you have to find a message that only you can send. And that message generally relies on two important pieces. The first is the um the asymmetry between what you know and what the customer cares about. And this is really important. These are two two two important things, which is what you know [clears throat] and what the customer cares about. Now, let's talk about the what you know piece. You can mine call transcripts, you can mine product data for this, but really a a lot of this is intuition of where to begin. And Claude can help you accelerate the where to begin, but the where to begin is usually in some niche. It is usually where you have high amounts of useful internal information. And what you're trying to do is to say to answer the question with perfect information on all of my current customers, what could I tell my next best customer that would be independently valuable to them. This is the my PVP framework. And the reason [clears throat] that people struggle with this, especially if you're horizontal SaaS, is that that that knowledge does not translate across industries, across sizes. Like Cisco, you know, like they're going to care about something different than a vertical SaaS company that I might work with. And so, the [snorts] value that I have to Cisco is going to be just much different. I'm a bad example, I'm not a product, but So, you need to figure out with perfect information, like and another way that I talk about this is if your prospect, if a a particular prospect, which is like an industry, a size, like like of something that unites that 100X customer, if they could break into your systems for a day, what would they ask? What would they want to know? What information would be valuable to them? And so the first piece is is figuring out what what that looks like. What what is what asymmetrical information do you have that your prospects would be, you know, would uh would consider immeasurably valuable. And that's usually blending internal and external data. And then the second piece, and I think people get People are starting, I think, to to do 1% 2% um uh to figure out what this looks like. But the second piece is how can you communicate it in a way that that they are receptive to. So, I think that the problem with these LLMs is that Let's say you get a bunch of data together and and uh you put it all together. And what you do is that the message what Claude wants to do is it wants to showcase all of the data work, which is missing the point. What you should be doing is thinking What What what does a human care about in this information? And what will they do with it? And this is not like People People think in templates a lot. They think like this is a template. And I think that a better way to think is like How is this information going to be absorbed? And what will they actually find valuable? And it is this data actually useful to them? And in many cases it's not. It's it's theater. And so, this is why it's always best to work backwards from your customers. So, if you have a campaign and you have an idea and you have customers that that campaign would apply to, ask them. Be like, does this like, read this message. What do you think? Um and I didn't write it. Some- someone else wrote it. So, be critical here. And generally genuinely, you will be missing some important customer context. Oh, we never did it that way. We don't think about it like that. One of the companies that I advise, they hired someone who used to be in that role. And I remember this so well. We were doing an event and I said, let's take them out to a Michelin star dinner and cuz that's what I would want. And this guy said, you know, most of the people here um this event is just to have a break from their families. Which is a little bit of a sad thing, but it's a break for the We all need our own alone time. But it's like they just want to drink beers with their friends. It's like and they're Miller Lite people. I mean, maybe Coors Light. And it's just not It's hard for me to get in that frame because it's not my frame. But it is a customer's frame. And of course, this converted so much better because it was aligned with what the customers actually wanted. And you know, did we say, "Hey Jordan, I did all this targeting and this is why you need our solution immediately and this is X, Y, or Z value to you, blah blah blah." We didn't do any of that stuff. We just said, "We got a bunch of people coming for beers. They're on us. You want to go have beers?" Like, that was the message. And we obviously didn't send it to people that weren't qualified. And there's no crazy data behind it and it just worked really well. And so, the over the value of a lot of the data is in the targeting, not necessarily the message. And the message has to do a lot less lifting if the targeting is there. So, if you know that and and by the way, this also depends on the competition in the competition for the problem space, not the category. So, if there's a lot of cuz you're always competing with something. You're competing usually with inaction, spreadsheets, um sometimes incumbents. And so, if there's a bunch of competition, your message has to rise above. But, ahead of time, you should know who you're targeting. And what I have found is that in a lot of my customers, we're shipping much smaller campaigns, like in the hundreds, sometimes in the tens, uh sometimes low thousands at a just a much higher velocity. Because that's who I can add a bunch of value to. And so, so much of great go-to-market is figuring out who you shouldn't target. And then for the folks that you should target, what incredible value do you have for them? So, these are the two things that I would encourage you to do. Uh I have built a tool called On the Edge Co-pilot that lives inside of Cloud Code. It has access to all my knowledge. I've done a bad job of marketing it, you know, the cobbler's children are the ones without shoes, something like that. There's a saying. Um but it tries to nudge you in this direction. It says, "Jordan has a skill for this. Jordan has a tool for this. Jordan's been watching you. He has some ideas." And it's really trying to help you align on what is the asymmetry between you and your prospect where you have a informational advantage that is useful to them. And then the second thing is how can you communicate with them in plain language, in their language, um such that it removes all of the automation feeling. Uh I know that people in the past would try to to do this by like sent from my iPhone do like these funny little tricks. And I think I Dale Carnegie's message in The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People really loom like it looms large with me. Because he said that if you think about my book like a series of tactics, they will not work for you. If you think about it as a way to live, things will fall in place. And so that's kind of what I'm suggesting here is that when you go to build things, remove your tactics brain. Employ your empathy brain. Figure out is one is this really a prospect that I know for sure can benefit from my service? Two, of all of the ones that can benefit from my service, is this selection of prospects 10x more valuable and how do I know? How can I be as certain as possible? And then three, what language should I use to make them feel most seen and to provide them useful information such that the power dynamic is I'm just trying to help you out. Not please get on a call with me. And if you do that, if you have a discernible way with data to identify what a 10x prospect looks like, if you have a discernible way with data to hard disqualify people anyone and that's not employee count, it's like well, they they literally have no software engineers so my product is useless to them. Or it could be uh well, this title has never bought before, so we'll never contact them. I don't know. It It's a variety of different things. And then that's a qualification gate to create. Then there's a quantification gate, which is like, how can I know if I spent unlimited time and had perfect information, how can I know that this customer would 10x benefit from my service? And then finally, the hardest thing A thing that just like wrecks people is how can I communicate that in a way that feels authentic to the person receiving the message? And we just get stuck in a template world. But when you go and open a message to an existing customer or to a friend, you're not thinking in templates. You're just trying to convey information, usually, and in a friendly way. I It's so funny. In all my videos now, I'm like, "Hey, yo, Chris. Well, you want to have beers Friday?" I just I'm trying to get Chris to have beers [laughter] with me. Actually, maybe this Friday we could do it. Uh he's a good friend, but I'm always like tagging Chris. I'm like, "You want to have beers?" He's always like, "Yeah, let's have beers on Friday." So, yeah, so these are the things you should keep in mind. And I think it's really important to anchor all of this in a real person. What would a real person How would a real person respond to this? Um maybe I should turn this into a skill. Claude could could fix everything. Um All right. Well, I wanted to thank you for showing up and showing attention. Oh, I also What I'm going to do is I'm going to turn this into a post on on the edge. Uh and that post will I will prompt Claude to transcribe this and also uh look at all of my I've got a wiki that has all my knowledge and all of my skills. And I'll ask Claude to disperse the skills and the Wiki pieces that are available with Edge Co-pilot. So you could actually see how my knowledge living in your terminal will relate to helping you do this. Cuz all of this is useless if it doesn't help you accomplish a goal. And that's what I'm trying to do. That's is why I built Edge Co-pilot because I thought content, you know, ironically content like this is not good enough. It's not good enough. You want me around when you're sitting down to build. And you want me to you want someone at least, maybe it's not me, to provide you insight and information and to help add a lens of directionality to all of this. Because Claude is sickophantic. It will build whatever you tell it to. Um and so I think that this is the key piece here is that you need someone with taste and opinions to steer you away from LLMs just building wildly in any direction. And that's what I've tried to build. Thanks for listening, for watching, and I'm so grateful for you. It's been a while since I've been a while. It's been a while since I've been on camera. I'm not in a way motion, which is weird. Uh uh thank you so much. And if you are a Oh, there's one more thing I'm doing for my monthly subscribers is that I'm going to use Claude to go like figure out who all you who all y'alls are. And then figure out what can I do to get you from a monthly to a yearly cuz the monthly is 50 bucks a month, yearly is $2,500 a year because there's a bunch of tools and much other stuff. Um and so I am going to um yeah, see what I can do to provide you value. One of my one of my yearly subscribers was building a list of all the franchises and their owners in the country. So I just like built it for him and then made the skill available to anyone that's a yearly subscriber. So I'm going to do more of these things, which is like an ungodly amount of work for $1,250 a year. I mean, it's a lot of money, but $1,250 a year subscriber. So, if you're interested and you want me to build you something and you've got $2,500 laying around for all of my content and the year and also this like free work, uh ping me. It can't be something I mean, I guess if it's a data It's mostly data jobs that I'm doing here. All right. Well, thanks so much for watching. Have a beautiful Tuesday. Later.