Yo, yo, yo. All right, I want to talk about what I think will be the most important skill of 2026. And that is the atomization of work. I think I talked about this before, but the idea here is that because the tools are so capable, small things work really well. Like, for example, I built something that says, "Build me a case study." So, go through all my my Gong call recordings. Uh it's for this company. The case study is for this company about this company. And take my PDF and make it look like that, right? So, it's a complex problem, [clears throat] but everything is sort of every piece of that is sort of known, which is the design is known, where you get the data is known, and who it's for is known. Um and the surface area for that to be wrong is also low. So, it's a complex task, but that is pretty well specified. So, gets it right. Now, I'm doing things that are much more complicated that are like, "Hey, go score all of Go find this entire TAM." Well, okay, great, you can do that. Um but where do I find it? What do I look for? What is good? What is bad? Um what is the decision-making architecture? And the value of what you want is you want to take a thing that you do often that is small enough and harden it so that you have this reusable asset where the surface area for it to fail is low. If you have more complex things, the key is knowing how to structure the inputs and outputs of those complex things so that you can chain them together. And this is where all the magic is. This is where the compounding value is. So, what's helpful is for you to think about what is the smallest unit of work that has a clear input and a clear output, and how do I validate that output? Now, let's talk about specifics. So, God, the weather's just so good here. So, for example, I want to know Here is information I have about a company. I want to go find their domain. So, that domain-finding skill is its own. It has a bunch of subparts. How do you evaluate if that domain is right? So, I have one piece that is like, "Go search for the domain. Use X or Y or Z tool. I use Surfer.dev, Open Web Ninja, um Appify. Go do a bunch of searches. Then, I can use a tool like Firecrawl or even Appify to download the HTML. Firecrawl will convert it to markdown. Appify, I'm sure, has something like that, too. Take the markdown, send it to together.ai with ChatGPT OSS 120B, which is their O3 model, essentially. And O3 mini is what it compares to. And be like, "Here's the input that I know. Here is the domain. Here's the full website text. Is this likely right? And if it's not right, give me a yes, a no, or a maybe. In either case, explain why you thought that." So, for the maybes, I basically can pass all of the maybe reasoning back through another model and say, "What are the cases of maybes? How do we clear the edge cases and push the edge cases into yes and nos?" That's a skill. And it's big enough that it's useful. And it has clear inputs and outputs, right? Yes or no. And it has a way to evaluate itself. So, the sort of the reasoning on the maybes, I pass back in to Opus and I say, "Hey, go account for this." Um and you know, and that might be that the website doesn't load or that uh There's like a thousand reasons. But I think that one of the thing I'm not doing yet that I probably should be doing is adding human observability. And so, I want the model to showcase examples for me so that I can look at it and say, "You know, what do I think?" So, I'm working right now to uh put all of my knowledge into these buckets that have um what is the input that I need, what is the output that I expect, how do I evaluate if the output is good or not, and how do I surface the edge cases for human review, right? And I want the model to be uh conservative, right? If it's okay if it puts more things in maybe. But then, thinking about that as architecture choices. So, I think that if you are to get really good at anything in 2026, it is the specification of these units of work, determining what inputs you need, what outputs you expect, how to evaluate quality, and how to add human review for the maybes to improve the quality, to improve the system. And getting better at building these modules to connect up in a workflow so that by the time 16 things are stitched together, you have reliably good results. And I'm working right now on a system to basically heal the failures to iterate on them. So, that's what I'm working on. I need to get a little bit better about doing this in a systematic fashion fashion so that I can turn what I do into just more repeatable tooling. And then, what I'm going to do is I'm going to hand that over to my clients. And the value is that with their context, with reusable pieces that not only get compound and teaching, I teach them how to use cloud code, but suddenly they get compounding value. It has their context. It has access to their tools. And they get access to the tools that I build so that they can do whatever they want with them. That's what I'm working on 2026. I almost did this. Like, what is that? Who did Who does that? Why would I do that? I would like to und Have a good day.