Hey, hey, hey. All right, today we are doing probably the backbone of almost all of my work. And that is I'm going to ship the customer dossier skill to my annual subscribers. Now, I did something really strange. I have a $50 a month sub at edge.blueprintgtm.com where you can see how I build the tools. But at the $2,500 a year, which is not 50 * 12, uh you actually get this skill. You can just pull it in and do a lot of the work that I do. So, what we're going to do is um for the paid subscribers, you'll be able to watch this and I'm going to give you some prompts to basically try to build this yourself. Um or if you want to pay for the year, you just get access to the tool that um that I built. So, let's dive in. Uh and I'm going to talk about why this matters after I prompt this thing. So, let's get into it. All right, so what I want to do is I want to um basically build a a skill that will help me build customer dossiers. Um and the purpose of this is uh to have every customer interaction on a timeline from every system that a company has. And um there's a couple things that kind of matter here. Uh um and uh the first thing that kind of matters is like what systems do they have? So, that's like the first thing. You need an inventory of systems. The second thing that kind of matters is uh how do you join them? Now, the joining piece and and by the way, I'm going to talk about these things and you probably need an agent for each of them. And I think that we should use forked agents once you get um a sense of how this stuff is built. So, I'm just going to drop in a bunch of um places where I have built these dossiers. So, you should be able to um basically look at these dossiers um and uh and you're going to want to use your skill creator skill to do this. Um but so okay, so the the so um first I would go and send an agent off and and look about um like revenue data and sales data and just have an understanding about what are the different forms that it comes in, what are the like and there's like I think a couple key primitives. There's the call recordings, which are absolutely essential, the CRM, and then actions they've taken in the app. So, product data. And generally the ethos of this is that uh that it's really important that you trust the customer's actions first, their words second, and then what's in the CRM third. And the other thing that like you probably need to do is you need to um have a have a an deploy an agent to that is about like how do you verify the connective tissue. So, this all is wrong if you're pulling the wrong gong calls for the wrong companies. Um and so if the dossiers are wrong, everything, all the analysis fails. And the other thing is that um uh another way to sort of test this is on a cohort basis. Um uh and so and most of the work of the dossiers and and by the way, there's like two modes in the skill. There's a prospect dossier and a customer dossier. Now, the prospect dossier is basically about everything before they become a customer and a customer dossier is a customer backwards. Um and so this skill is just about not the analysis on top of these things, um but it should basically be able to build both. And they might be one thing in the same. You just have a a tag to say just evaluate this for customers or just evaluate this for prospects um because we have different levels of data on them. Um but I do think it's important that uh uh also that there's like in the building of the skill, every time that there's a key field at the very least, it probably should get its own agent. So, like the linking and this is in the skill, but also in thinking about building the skill. So, uh for example, the linking of customer ID, it it needs its own agent. And it should explore all variants like email matching, uh at the account level and by the way, there's kind of a couple of primitives here. There are opportunities, uh accounts, contacts, like leads. There's a couple of key primitives and you can you can look at the key primitives in some of the stuff that I've I've done because um we need to be able to match and ideally a via a variety of things. So, you should always go test if there's like a Salesforce ID that exists everywhere. Um you should test that. Also, for the things that matter most, they need their own context windows. So, when thinking about building the skill, you should be very thoughtful about like what what's in the context window. So, again, I said the joining needs its own context window. Probably if you're evaluating things like MRR and ARR, that needs its own context window. Um you should probably do some research test online to be like, is this reasonable? Does this seem like this information is right? So, like is this the company's website with everything that we know? And so uh there should always be a like after every sort of key milestone. And the first milestone is like gathering all of the data. And each of the data sources needs its own agent um and they should be open agents uh or whatever the sort of top model is. And then once all of the that is gathered, um it needs to make sure that that like it flags anything with the user and it should be conservative about flag flagging. It's like, here's exactly how I did it. And I think one of the key things that's going to be useful is at every point in this process, you kind of need to be able to educate the reader. Um so, you need to be able to uh the person building it. So, it's like, hey, here's exactly how I did this and here are some examples where there's outliers. And I think one of the key things that um I haven't seen done really well in the past is that it's really anchoring against real world evidence um uh that it found in the data and it really tries to find like the outliers and um uh and also probably uses um probably towards the like at the end of every stage, it has like three critical agents. So, you should look at how Claude code you should deploy another agent about how Claude code you uses its auto plan mode and it looks at it from three perspectives. So, um that's like probably pretty important. Um I know you're going to have a lot of questions here. Um uh and the key and you should go also before we do all the forked agent stuff, what you should probably go do is like go understand what I've built so far. And then for every little agent that is um that is building this skill, that should be a forked agent because you're going to want to have all of that full context about how I've done this and the problems I've run into in the past. So, if you have to get like previous commits, there's like four or five versions of the dossier uh for for some of these companies um and the things that we changed. These are like real world examples. It's also really important that this skill does not um that it respects all the privacy of my clients. So, this should be uh client diagnostic. Um and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn this into a video for on the edge, um which is my Substack, uh and uh and I'm eventually going to want to put this skill. So, the very last piece of the plan is to allow anyone that has Edge Copilot to access this skill. Um uh and then also as part of that plan, we should make sure that we pass a document over. Uh actually, we can just even write the draft as part of the end. Um uh so, but that's like the least important piece. You could just leave notes if you wanted to if you think that this is getting too complex. Wow. That was a crazy prompt. Uh sorry about that. Uh All right. So, Oh man, this always happens. There's is a key command to re-paste things. Boom. Okay. Uh and let's go into plan mode. So, basically So, what are these customer dossiers? Well, we're probably and I had a a video about this yesterday. It's like we're probably greatly overcomplicating a go-to-market because I think that the thing that's been wrong for a long time is that we're depending on ideal customer profiles. And for from imperfect measures. But now we have we have intelligence. And we actually can know what the customer said and what led them to convert, who didn't convert. And we can use statistical analysis. Oh, actually, that's another thing. Uh hold on. Uh and yeah, I think also um if there's a before you I think you should like have a another agent that looks about like how do you triage data quality issues? Like and that agent should have like a statistician and a RevOps's mind like and like that can spot uh like obvious errors. So, it's like, oh well, Apple if Apple is an account, for example, and it's a it's the ARRs listed as $20, right? Like that might need some like testing. Um or there might be like statistical variances or like how websites don't meet um um certain criteria like they they they don't all have um domains or what you know the domains are wrong. So like fill rates are pretty important. So um before you like as part of the skill um you do want to make sure that you check all of that stuff and it the interactive mode is going to be so so so key. So just be really thoughtful uh and maybe at at the end you can have a critique agent here but be really thoughtful about how all of this is presented to the user and and if you look at the history of commits you can see like where we've had um uh challenges in the past uh um in terms of like data quality issues and maybe some of those we could have caught earlier if this skill walked a customer or revops person that had really good knowledge of the data um and yeah it's probably going to be built like live with the company on a call. Um so just like take that in mind. Uh okay. Uh so So basically I think that we're just overcomplicating a go-to-market. I think that really what we need to be doing is taking the customer dossiers and prospect dossiers and >> [snorts] >> and then figuring out what did customers say? How could I have known that they were in that situation ahead of time? What would I do to qualify them? Uh and And so it all kind of begins there because this is your ground truth. And this is why you also need This is why segmentation is really important. So one of my customers sells into legal tech and they also sell they sell into legal legal and they also sell into like other companies. So the first thing we did is just like let's just identify the legal companies. And I spent a lot of time just saying how do we know? And and can we trust the data? So we took all their websites, downloaded them all locally and then evaluated uh exactly uh how they were to be used. Uh sorry we evaluated if they matched the CRM. So like how good is this data? So this is probably going to take a while. I I I won't um I won't bore you but I'm going to turn this into a post for you. Uh this post I mean you're here you that's how you're probably consuming this maybe on YouTube. And uh uh so what you will get for free is like you'll see kind of how I built this. The $50 a month will actually get like a lot of the prompts so you can rebuild this yourself if you want. Um and of course that won't be everything but then those that pay the $2,500 a year get Jordan in your terminal. Get there's a edge copilot that you install and it's um it does two things now I just shipped and added. Um it'll always watch in the background and I think it's like 10 cents a day or something equivalent of tokens it's on it. Um and then there's an opus summary of what you did every day uh that queries my knowledge. Um so that's uh that's what's going on. And thank you so much. I've had such great reception to the launch of this thing and I'm going to try start publishing more of what I do for you. More of what I do for you. Thanks again for watching and for subscribing. I am so grateful. I hear from a lot of you all the time and I can't tell you how meaningful it is that you support me and I always like getting messages that like Jordan you're undercharging. Yeah that may be so um but I think that that means that you're getting a ton of value from this thing and I like that. And I think in the world of AI uh that there's that trust and brand is going to be irreplaceable. Also I have one of my favorite Claude Code YouTube creators. I've given him access to the Substack. We're going to try to post weekly maybe weekly updates about what what actually matters in Claude Code. He's a developer I'm not a developer and so and I just love his takes and he'll go in and dive deep into the uh in kind of everything. And so I've created a project to automate uh that for him so that you're going to get updates from him of like from an actual developer who's like deep in the code. Here is what Claude Code shipped here is why it matters and here is what I think of it. I mean him in this case because um I've I've grown to really trust his voice and I'm like hey why don't you just submit to this thing? So uh hopefully we'll get that going soon um and I'm going to get some other uh commits on this thing from other leaders in the space and I'm going to give them access to publish uh to the Substack. So hopefully this will be the place that you come as a builder to understand how to build and what to build and give you the tools to do that. And if you can make a bunch of money doing that I salute you. Bye.