Hey, what's going on everyone? I don't know if you know this, but I have one place and only one place now where you can get all of my information and that's edge.blueprint.gtm.com. And I did this because I wanted to allow all of my knowledge to live in your terminal. The terminal is where I build everything now in Cloud Code and I want you to have access to everything. It's 50 bucks a month if It's free if you just want to kind of read about what I'm up to. It's 50 bucks a month if you want to know how I did it and it's $250. No, 2,000 I just gave a 90% um it's $2,500 for the year if you want everything that I do. Just like all of my knowledge, everything. Um All right, so today what we're talking about is basically why messaging is so hard and I'm going to give you sort of three frameworks here to I call I call this the concentric circle test, especially for pre-PMF. So, startups are generally struggling with three things, which is what segment do I go after? Now, notice I didn't say market, I said segment. And when I when I say segment, I don't mean When I say market, I mean health care. When I say when I say segment, I mean orthodontist. Uh market is too big. It's a too big of a concept to sort of go after. So, you have to pick a segment. Um And so, once you have a segment identified, then you have to pick a company, right? Which which com- which companies do I target within that segment? And then you have to pick a person. So, consider this sort of the whole entity of the segment, the whole entity of the company, and the whole entity of the person or the persona, if you will. So, director of marketing. Now, um towards the center of this circle is basically the largest challenge that this segment is having. So, let's like move let's like get your solution sort of out of the mix for a second. So, if you could say and let's actually rename this um or or God. Did I spell orthodontist? Or the dot is almost. Sorry orthodontist. I really appreciate what you're doing with my teeth though. Um so, let's assume that um uh that this is the sum of problems they have. As we get closer to the center of this list, um or the center, this is their core challenge. Uh let's change that color to be purple. So, this is sort of their core challenge. And this sort of uh replicates across all of these concentric circles. Core challenge, right? And for orthodontist, and this changes over time by the way. So, for orthodontist right now, it might be billing. Um it might be that they are um uh and and by the way, this is fuzzy. It gets clearer as you go down to the person level, but if you were to um uh look at that segment, what is the sort of key thing that is uh most important to them right now? And let's like let's actually give you a real example from a friend of mine. He has a dishwasher startup. Just don't don't ask. This is a long story. Um and he had two hypotheses. R E S T A U R A N T S. Did I get that right? Restaurants. That's a hard word to spell. Um I think I just spelled it so many times. So, his sort of uh first segment is restaurants. And he's like, "Look, I can come in and help you uh do your dishes. So, you don't have to pay someone. It's cheaper, whatever." Well, a restaurant's core challenge, like that industry, is they just want you to come out raving about the food and the experience. That's their goal. And whether it's McDonald's or a Michelin star restaurant, their sort of core challenge is, "Can I get enough people?" And by the way, usually this is the case, right? It's like a sales marketing core challenge. But like, can I get enough people in? Now, that's at the um at the segment level. So, that's the thing that they care about. But it changes per company, right? So, McDonald's has different core challenges, even though they have the same sort of main issue, which is like, we have to make sure we have enough throughput um uh that there's enough sort of sales here that's that's happening. McDonald's has a different core challenge at the company level, cuz they're a different beast than your local bistro, right? And and then within McDonald's, a person has a core challenge, right? So, so my friend sold into restaurants, and he said, "We can clean your dishes." And it's like, okay, well, as a on the whole, the importance of dishes to their business is here. Now, if they can save money, great, sure. Um but he now this uh and this is why you see a lot of people fail. Let's see if I can make a arrow. Oh boy. What I did, actually, is I made this way too gigantic. Uh so, everything is like ridiculously tiny. I don't even think this Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. I think it's like nine uh 200. It won't even go there. What about 100? Okay, great. Um so, this delta Oh, I got to change the color, sorry. Um this this Maybe I don't. This delta is This is like um like hard uh sell uh hard sell uh hard sell. Like, as in hard not a hard sell, as in a difficult sell. That this is a difficult sell to do, because you're basically trying to say, "I know you don't care about this as your core challenge." Um hard. I know you don't care about this as your core challenge, but I'm going to convince you that you should, right? I'm going to try to help move my solution into that uh into that sort of bucket here. Now, okay, great. So, now what he's going to do is to to make this easier, he's going to try to within the rest restaurant segment sell into restaurants that have dishwashing as more of a core challenge. But, you can kind of see where this logic breaks down where it's like, "Okay, well, what restaurant wakes up in the morning and like, 'Oh my gosh, we need to get our dishwashing fixed.' Like, almost none of them. Now, there are actually there's a restaurant here in San Francisco that is just run terribly that has like way, way, way too many dishwashers. And they could save a lot of money. So, saving money becomes, you know, this becomes more important for them. So, he's helpful, right? And and then in this case because the single buyer, like the person, how close is basically dishwashing for like how how important is dishwashing for this one person? Now, if it's the CEO and you say to the CEO, "We can save you $150,000." Like, okay, well, saving money is probably going to be pretty helpful for the business, right? But, every time this circle drifts away from the core challenge, you have a harder and harder time completing the sale. And so, so it's like, "Okay." And he was getting meetings, it was sort of working. But, then I said, "Hey Claude, go help me and I think we just chatted you actually. It's like, go help me determine like what is a situation that we can find where there's a better segment, a better company, and a better person to go after." Well, we asked Claude and it found this thing called Dishub. Who knew? This is why you don't do this at market. Uh Now, Dishub, their entire business, entire business is washing dishes. So, their core challenge, boom. Let's see. Where's the dead center? Their core challenge is washing dishes. That's all they think about all day long. How can I wash dishes more efficiently um uh sort of better etc. And uh And so if you go after a dish hub, I know there's a hundred of them. They're like Yeah. I have And And basically, he was able to go to these things with the worst possible message in B2B SaaS, which is here's who I am and here's what I'm about and here's what I'm doing. Seven out of 10 replies on LinkedIn. And that's because it's like they're always listening for more effective ways and their entire business is is solving this mouse trap, right? They charge a service fee and that service fee is all about how can they get dishes through their environment as fast as possible. Now, does this make a billion-dollar business? Not today. Um So he picked dish hubs and you know, sure enough, way better response rate. Easy mode. This is easy mode. And it's a segment because at a market level, he can't There is no sort of um I would argue that dish hubs aren't necessarily a market. Um The The messaging is too splash. You can't really look at this at a market level. Like there is no sort sort of central thing for what is health care care about, I mean, in this framework. Okay. So now companies. Now um the kind of nice thing about companies in the space is if this if like sort of how can I more efficiently do dish washing you can see sort of that the companies are all going to be about here. So if he closes his eyes and picks a a company in this dish hub segment, they're all of their problems are going to be circled around this main efficiency. Now some of them right now are opening up new businesses, right? They are we're we are too busy scaling our existing way and we're making too much money. We can't be thinking about new innovative ways. So, that's the case. So, there might be some companies that are here which are just like, "Hey, we have this really efficient thing." Um and actually, if you think about it like if there's an Amazon of dish hubs, maybe they've already solved this, right? And so, they're like, "Hey, we don't need any robotics. Our whole thing is completely uh automated, right?" Um and by the way, it the maturity of this segment matters relative to your core challenge. So, in this case, this segment is like kind of um relatively new. I mean, I think in the last decade or so. And so, he's basically going to want to pick the companies that cluster around the center of his um and by the way, this is your solution and this is like the sum of their problems. So, you could think of the bull's-eye as the dead center of like this is the most important thing. So, so, he picked a uh segment. And this is going to be easy mode here. This will be hard. Right. And these are companies. These are you could think about these as representing 1 2 3 4 5 6 individual companies, right? If you if you imagine this duplicated. So, these are going to be easy companies. And because he's picked a segment, a lot of the you know, he closes his eyes and throws a dart and almost all those companies are going to be um uh in sort of easy mode. Now, let's talk about I should duplicate all these things. Now, let's talk about the persona. Now, this is where generally you have to be a little bit more thoughtful. And again, same sort of thing um easy mode uh and and I would say uh message fit. This is more about message fit. Um and so, you could think about if you were to This is like sort of the core challenge. If you were to take this into the person level, uh and let's like move let put baby in a corner. If you are to take this to different person different people, um What is uh You have a different question to answer, which is like what is their core? You have to understand what their core is. Oop. Um and so imagine that this is CEO person. I'll tell you a real story. CEO person. Uh tech person. Uh Okay. So, in this case, uh basically he's thinking about this uh cost per dish, right? The CEO person's like, "What's the cost per dish, right?" And so, basically, um when my friend is uh pitching, uh let's say that he starts here um and he's starting with um a message about um um let's say speed. Let's say this is his sort of default thing. We can do this really really quickly. Well, um oh man, I I I lost my arrow. I had that great arrow. How did I lose my arrow? Someone rewatch the clip and tell me when I deleted it. Uh okay. Let's see. How do I make the size again? You can see that I'm clearly a designer by trade. Oh, it. Um you'll just have to deal with a very very very tiny arrow. I kind of wish Claude could I mean I guess the Claude design um I haven't played with it enough, honestly. Aha. I think 100 was the biggest I could go. Okay. So, this gap is literally uh asking questions. Ask questions. So, what you're just trying to do is your you don't want to start here. Start with curious. Right? And you're trying to ask questions to understand what is the thing that they care about? What's the most important thing? And it's surprisingly different for every uh company, every um uh every person. And so, great. So, he's got this. Now, he has a different thing, which is um what are the what are the sort of problems? Now, this tech person is they have they have a different thing. Their core thing is fear of up, right? No one is like, "Congratulations, CRM worked again today." No, they're like, "The data's wrong. That's you. You're fired." So, they have a fear of up. And so, this is why you have to um really do a good job here because let's say let's say actually the tech person is the one that's going to make the the difference here. Um what you need to say to them is you need to understand what is their sort that sort of fear of up. Um and then in this case, he says, "We'll we'll have labor there. We'll basically default to your existing stack and we will we'll we'll we will literally do the dishes ourselves." Right? And so, the tech person is just like, "Okay. Well, I just want to make sure that if this thing fails, that I'm not on the line, you know?" And again, I don't know what this is for the tech person. Like they may actually say, "Well, how does this integrate with blah blah blah?" Right? They you but you really do need to discover like what's important to you. What does success look like? Do Do you get promoted here if this happens? Um and so I think that when you think about a lot of like early stage Let's put me in the corner. I've almost four corners. We think a lot about like early stage exploration of PMF, what you really want to do is narrow in a lot of uh and use AI to find the right segments. So where is the overlap between their problem and your solution? Where are you bulls-eye mode for most of this for most of the segment, right? Then you want to say, "Okay, of all the companies that I could target, where is the best clustering of easy mode?" And that's why the segment matters cuz if you close your eyes and throw a dart here and and these segments are like 100 to 2K companies. They're small. They're not like if that's like this is like a rubric. Um maybe even 50. But certainly not more than 2K. Uh and actually I give like the the uh orthodontist or whatever. It might even be more specific than orthodontist. It might even be like um uh So I I shouldn't say this isn't a hard and fast rule. It's just like a rule of thumb. Uh orthodontist is going to be larger than this. But then the orthodontist that you target are going to be important. If you target practice groups, PE groups, they're going to be very different. PE groups have different problems than mom and pop orthodontists. And you want to do a lot of this clustering, right? Where your solution is really as core to their business. This is why I do sales and marketing. It's like as core to the center of the business as you can, right? I always joke. It's like It's like uh it's like alcohol, you know? It's like when times are bad, you drink bourbon. And when times are good, you drink champagne. Uh and so everyone always needs sales and marketing. Uh And then, your sort of uh third piece here is you just have to get really curious. And you have to have a really good understanding targeting different people in the organization, but the founder needs to come up with these. They need to pick them. The founder needs to look at these and pick them. The salesperson can test getting meetings here. That's what it looks like. And so, I think um the most valuable thing early-stage founders can do are pick these two things. Pick the segment, pick the company, and then have a salesperson to be like, all right, just go make cold calls and go try to find uh and test different personas. And if the if there are bad companies or bad segments, that's on the founder. And it doesn't matter because you just try again next week, right? So, you probably need to call 500 people. Um 200 people. Uh 500 dials, I think, is the number. It's 500 to 1K dials. Um then, you know, that's like the the sort of testing period. This takes um a week, maybe less. Two to four Two to four days. In two to four days, you should know. Um And by the way, if if this person calls, you know, four different personas, well, bad company or bad segment. Um Or actually, sorry. Because they would call a combination of company and people, if they call four segments um at a variety of companies, then you you're just you need to uh sorry, four different people at companies in this easy mode, you probably have the wrong segment. Test again. So, this is what it looks like. This is how you could test your way to PMF at an early-stage company. Um and use the models here to talk about in great depth about your solution um to have um AI ask you questions of or come up with segments to find who is this sort of a core problem for and how should I pitch it? Um, and then just build company lists and there's a lot of tools. This is what my whole Substack is about, the company list and people. Uh, yeah. That's the concentric circle test. Um, I would love it if you'd subscribe. edge.goblueprintgtm.com um, is where you can find everything I do. Thank you. Bye.