Who are you? How do you describe what you do for work? It's so hard, but uh if the if I'm talking to somebody that's boring, I'll just tell them I teach psychology stuff. But if I want to get into it, I'll I'll say, you know, I I teach uh all everything from brainwashing to interrogation, uh applied on yourself and other people. And most of what I do is train sales teams on nowadays. So, it sales has gotten really addicted to this stuff. Uh but I've studied neuroscience for a long time. And I spent my life trying to figure out how the brain works and how to shift human behavior. Not just like to get someone to confess to something in an interrogation, but how do we modify our own behavior and and what are the mechanics that make that possible? Do you think we're living in the most psychologically manipulated era in human history? Yes. Hands down. But I mean, you go to ancient Rome, some some [ __ ] would happen and they would say, "Hey, do the do the lion fighting thing with the guy. Let's distract everybody." So, I I don't think it's new. I think it's a lot more pervasive, though. Is that because of it being facilitated through technology, or is that because of a requirement for control? What's the motivation for that? I think the I I just the digital media. If you think about what is the number one fear of human beings? Like, every psychology class talks about it. It's the public speaking. But it's never public speaking. It's I I don't want to be judged. I don't want to be ostracized cuz our in our brain that's 200,000 years old. Uh getting kicked out of a tribe means I'm dead. Not going to have sex, I won't have babies, and I'm going to die. It's it's a mortal fear uh of dying. But if you go back to the 1980s, um if I did something stupid in high school or even as an adult, I have to worry about 30 or 40 people judging me and maybe, you know, really kind of kicking me out of a social group. And now, with social media, you've got to worry about five or 10 million. So, the consequences of doing something wrong are unbelievably exponentially increased, uh which has made us a whole different society, which we could get into. And this is the origin of this pandemic of loneliness that we're in right now. Um where everybody will agree that we're at pandemic levels of loneliness, and nobody you don't hear anyone saying, "I'm lonely." >> [gasps] >> Which is a a deeper root of this exact problem. What's happening then? You ever study French philosopher, this guy named Sartre? I've read [snorts] a little bit of his stuff, but like just single quotes. He had this play it was called Sartre's Hell, where three people are locked in a room, basically like this. And it's a play. But the room's not totally locked. Every couple hours the door opens and you can leave if you want to. And nobody leaves. And they're all desperate to be seen a certain way by someone else. So, this one guy, he um I'm paraphrasing, but he wants to be seen as a good person. So, he asks asks this woman there, "Please tell me I'm a good person. Please." And she says, "Yeah, you're a good person." But he knows she doesn't mean it. So, he stays. The door opens, nobody leaves, and they stay because they're waiting for this confirmation from other people who they are. And in this world today, with how performative and artificial everybody has become, so that I've got to show my best self, I've got to hide shame, I've got to conceal all this guilt and stuff that people carry around, >> [cough and clears throat] >> the reason that somebody can feel lonely in a room full of people, and I'm not just talking about on Facebook, I'm saying like in a real room full of people, is because no matter how many times your friends come over and pat you on the back and say, "Oh, Chris, we did you did a great job. We love you. You're you're a great guy." Your spouse might say, "Oh, we we love you and you're you're a great person." In the back of your mind, you know you're faking it and you know that none of them really like the real you. And you get at the end of the day, and I'm not saying this is you, but at the end of the day, you're lonely in a in a room of 150, 200 people because you know that none of them know you. And you haven't ever really been seen by anybody. Mhm. So, increased fear of judgement because of social media equals increased performance equals I'm wearing a costume almost all the time and nobody has ever seen me, nobody really knows me. So, even if they claim to like me, in the back of my brain, there's this little reminder mechanism that says they don't like the real me. And nobody ever has. Nobody's ever seen me. Mhm. So, this is my opinion, but I think that's the root of our of the pandemic that we're in right now of loneliness. Like, we're more connected than ever and more performative than ever at the same time. So, we we can't really connect. Our brains are wired for 120, 130 person tribe. And we we start getting over that and we have massive issues. It's interesting that a lot of the time the person has been subsumed by the persona. The role that people are playing. >> Yeah. But the persona is incapable of receiving love, it can only receive praise at best. And it feels like a pat on the back. The same as people don't love Chris Hemsworth, they love Thor. They don't love Russell Crowe, they love Gladiator. So, how can you be surprised if you don't genuinely existentially feel the connection with your pursuits and your successes and the people around you. You know that they're just applauding the role that you play as opposed to seeing who you are truly. Yeah. Have you seen the movie Pig with Nicholas Cage? No. You got to watch that. Even if you watch this one scene, it's like 5 minutes long. Nicholas Cage plays this guy who's just kind of had enough and he stopped performing forever. Like he doesn't care. Uh he's not mean or anything. Just doesn't perform. And he goes to this restaurant, he's a famous chef and he's exiled and stuff. And this chef is just pretending to be a certain type of person so that his restaurant is more successful. And Nicholas Cage just basically says, "None of this is real. You're not real, which means they're not real and none of this everything's fake. Everything here is completely fake. And you're going to wake up every day and there's going to be less of you and less of you until there's nothing left that you will ever recognize again." >> [gasps] >> And it it's this massive awakening scene for this guy and it's beautiful. And I think when people watch it, they assume, "Oh, I'm in I'm in the Nick Cage role." >> Yeah. Mhm. Uh and maybe sometimes in our life we are, but I think in other times we need to be kind of shaken awake and somebody grabs our little camera and changes our camera angle to look at a situation differently. I want to be woken up like that in every possible way. Um and I think that's that's what we all need. Is brainwashing real? What's true and false about that? Brainwashing is absolutely real. There's a four-step process and it spells out the word fear. Um it's focus, emotion, agitation, and repetition. So, if we start with focus, this is me routinely breaking what you are predicting to be what's going to happen next over and over and over in a massive amount. One or two times, this is what triggers a mammal brain our mammal brain and a dog. You're walking down a pathway in the woods and a stick breaks behind a tree. You're like, what was that? You're not worried about anything else. So, the fastest way to generate human focus or mammal focus is novelty. Some genuine thing happens that you didn't expect. So, that's the first. That's what we generate mass amount of focus. And then it's emotion. And with emotion, there's some there's an old hypnosis technique that came that became popular in the '50s. This guy named Dr. Milton Erickson popularized this thing called fractionation. So, if you And you'll be familiar with like Channel 4 and Derren Brown. I know a lot of Americans aren't, but he he's kind of a there's no American equivalent of Derren Brown. Oz maybe the closest? Pullman? Yeah. Oz Pullman, yeah. So, they figured out like if I pull somebody down in hypnosis and then take them gently out of it, when I put them right back down in. So, this is in quick succession. I take you out of hypnosis and then I put you back into hypnosis again, you'll go deeper every time. And there's no such thing as depth in hypnosis. What they essentially mean is you'll have more GABA. You know what GABA is? It's a neurotransmitter in your system like the safety chemical. And you'll also have a higher degree of theta wave brain state. And if I could just keep going up and then back down and up and then back down, you're deeper and deeper and deeper in a hole every single time. So, if you look at your feed, anybody out there, you open whatever feed you want on any whatever app you're thinking of right now. You kind of scroll through your feed, you're going to see stuff that kind of brings you back up, but only for a second or two. And then it's fear and scarcity. And it follows the thing of getting your focus, showing you an authority figure telling you something threatening, making you fearful of judgment of a tribe, and then making you emotional, and then bringing you back up, and then back down in that cycle. So, it's focus, authority, tribe, and emotion. You'll see it in your feed, guaranteed. And you don't even need to You don't even need to scroll for like 5 minutes. You'll see it right away. And then it'll be like one little thing to kind of bring you up like um one of those videos where the people are like, "Oh, we just found this baby deer on our porch one day, and we decided to bottle-feed him and raise him." And then, you know, it's like a a fast cut to where like he's a giant deer like sleeping in the kids' bed or something, and he's like a family member now. It's like a heartwarming video that that feels and I I love watching those. But it feels great, and then bam, they pull you back down again into the cycle. But what you'll notice after you see that fear video at the end of the focus, authority, tribe, and emotion, right at the end of that, they're either going to A, bring you up, or B, show you an ad. I've never heard anybody talk about this before, but you can absolutely see it. And I'm not immune. Like I've bought stupid [ __ ] on Instagram like anybody else. Knowing about this like doesn't get you vaccinated against manipulation. I bought the dumbest [ __ ] in the world on Instagram. It just means I'm a I'm a good well-informed victim of this stuff. But that's the the core of brainwashing is focus, emotion. That's the fractionation part of up and down. Then agitation. So, this is doing something to where the mammalian brain recognizes this is a different environment than I was expecting. Not a thing that's happening. So, now the landscape is changing. The oil prices are going up. This big thing is happening. There's a shortage of some critical resource. And then repetition. So, if it's in a detainee environment, if the massive focus is them being woken up in the middle of the night over and over by strobe lights and loud sounds, cold water, that kind of stuff, then the emotion, the entire time you're sitting there in your prison cell or whatever, uh I've got every photo your family's ever posted on the internet playing on a slideshow using a projector on the wall. So, focus, emotion, then agitation. Something is extremely disrupting to your ability to predict the future. That's agitation, and then repetition, the cycle begins again. And you can kind of do whatever you want. That That process creates a blank slate in people, and that's like the That's like the baseline formula of of how brainwashing works. And that is exactly what social media is using. Yes, but I think a lot of people think, "Oh, there's some dark conference table, dudes smoking cigars, like, how do How can we How can we really mess these people up?" I don't think it's that at all. I think it's just an algorithm that's rewarding what's creating the most revenue. So, like, showing you an ad for shoes is way easier after you watch the little baby deer video, or after I make you think that the water supplies get being destabilized. So, I think it's just an algorithm. I think there's many other things where there's people involved in manipulating the public. I don't think that social media is doing that on purpose. That That one piece of it. The piece that I do absolutely think is being done on purpose is if you're on the left and you open your feed, you're going to be shown the dumbest piece of [ __ ] idiots on the other side that they could possibly find. And if you're on the right, you're going to be seeing the exact same thing about people on the left. And at the number one goal being you and in the deepest part of your mind, you cannot help but make a permanent judgment about reality of those people are effing crazy. All of them are crazy. I can't trust them. I can't listen to them. And this is a a campaign that I think is called engineered division. And if I can get people fighting horizontally, they're not going to look up. If I can get somebody destabilized and kind of at ends at odds with each other, you're not your ability to think critically is reduced by like 50%. This is massive and they've shown this in many studies. And just getting someone destabilized in that way where they're kind of fighting each other, they're distrustful of their neighbors, they're 10 times more easy to manipulate. So, if you think of like how our brain works, if you're falling off a cliff, your arms and legs are going to flail all over the place. They're moving everywhere. The first solid object that touches your body, you're going to like instinctively grab onto it. Even if it's a thorn bush or barbed wire, you'll you'll grab it. So, when it when a population is destabilized and something clear and logical is presented, something like a prepackaged enemy, I'll just leave that there. is given to you, it you're 10 times more likely to accept it. Because it's clear, it's prepackaged, and it's easy to follow. And humans do not ever follow like the best leader in in a situation. They follow the most followable. And there's a big difference between those things. Um So, destabilization that would be step number one. And and two Chinese intelligence officers wrote a paper on this. Uh it's called I think it's called unrestricted warfare. It's been translated into English. And they use a hypothetical country that really looks like the United States uh in this paper. But they talk about this asymmetric warfare and how we have to get them fighting each other. We have to make them distrustful of each other and we destabilize the government from the inside cuz we can't we can't win a terrestrial war with these people. Uh and they they all of this is just written out there. You could buy this probably on Amazon for like three or four bucks. The this translated book. It's probably online, too. But it's very it's very open that it's not just like it's not like the normal bad guys that you hear about. These are foreign state actors that are doing some of this stuff. We just had a former mayor of a city in California, I believe, that that was proven to be a operative for China. A mayor. And it So, I I think people are thinking like there's some ancient rich family, uh you know, in the depths of some cave somewhere plotting the destruction of the world. I think it's just countries that hate each other and greedy, selfish companies. Um and maybe I'm oversimplifying it, but if you're watching the news and you don't hear nuance, you are being manipulated. Cuz you're they're giving you a message there's here's the enemy. Here's how to feel about what you're watching on the news, and here's exactly what's happening, and they'll tell you that this this and this all these three things happened. They'll never tell you how they're connected. They'll act like everything's a separate story. So, uh I think there's an agenda. I I won't pretend I I'd be a fool to say that I I can understand or know the end game of any of this stuff. Mhm. That was a long-ass answer to your question. >> [laughter] >> What makes a leader followable? Yeah. Uh there are authority first, the perception of authority. And we trust, in order, there are five things that make us trust another human being. Uh first is confidence. So, the person is doesn't have any reservations. They're talking clearly. They're speaking in a way that I can clearly understand. They're not using academic language. Uh which is why most presidents the president who has speaks at a lower grade level is I think like 35% more likely to win a debate. >> [snorts] >> So, that makes them followable, right? Confidence and literacy like it's clear clear to understand them. They're very confident. Next is discipline. And I don't mean that this the person is like making videos of themselves waking up and like, "Hey, here's my morning routine." But, I mean like we can see discipline on people. We can see somebody that has self-control and discipline and that starts coming through. We get we can pick up on that. And then leadership. And for good for good or bad, there's cult leaders that have all these problem or all these qualities, too. Uh gratitude and enjoyment. The gratitude just being like I'm thankful for what's happening right now in the moment. My I'm emotionally stable. I'm easy to follow. But, we're not really going into all that. Our brain's shortcut is that we follow someone who is probably loudest, clearest, and has no hesitation in their behavior. So, our brains are trained to look for micro hesitations and automatically give us a little gut feeling of oh, I shouldn't trust that person. So, micro hesitations are the fastest way to destroy authority. In both of those scenarios that you just described, the world being chaotic, difficult, and confusing, and something being offered up as order. In one example, it's an enemy that's prepackaged. There's order. Why is this going bad? It could be a million reasons or it could be that group over there. And the same thing for leaders, I don't understand what's going to happen. We've got all of these different directions that we could go down. Don't worry. All of that chaos doesn't need to be worried about because I have the order and I can wrangle this system to bring it to bear. Yeah. For better or worse. And that's what happens. And if you just the way that I describe this very simply is the process is to close down a machine or close close everything down build pressure inside of it and then decide where the pressure is going to release. So, it's a it's a controlled release of pressure that's been being built up on purpose. And sometimes that is like the pressure is some relief. Like we have this national thing that's happening and the pressure release is chosen at a certain point. And there's a lot of uh people that say you like track the money. If you track pressure, like financial pressure, economic pressure uh shipping and trade pressure, oil uh shipping around the world, tracking the pressure is always more revealing from an intelligence perspective than tracking the money. This pressure's going to show you like it has to have a release valve somewhere. And nine times out of 10 there's there is a person or group of people that are choosing how and where the release valve is going to be. Before we continue, I wish someone had told me 5 years ago to stop overthinking nutrition and just find something that works. I've simplified mine down to one scoop a day and it's made hitting my nutritional bases an awful lot easier. AG1 includes 75 vitamins, minerals, probiotics, and whole food ingredients and that is why I've been drinking it every morning for over 5 years now. And they've taken it a step further with AG1 next gen, the same one scoop ritual but now backed by four clinical trials. In those trials, AG1 was shown to fill common nutrient gaps, boost healthy gut bacteria by 10 times, and improve key nutrient levels in just 3 months. They've been refining the formula since 2010, 52 iterations and counting. And I love the next gen because it's more bioavailable, it's clinical validation, which is unbelievably rare in the supplement world. The older I get, the more I realize that the small stuff compounds, and this is one of the smallest things I do that makes a massive difference. If you're still on the fence, they've got a 90-day money-back guarantee in the US, so you can buy it and try it for 3 months, and if you do not like it, they'll just give you your money back. Right now, you can get a free AG1 welcome kit that includes a bottle of D3K2, AG1 flavor sampler, and that 90-day money-back guarantee by going to the link in the description below or heading to drinkag1.com/modernwisdom. That's drinkag1.com / modernwisdom. What's the outcome you think that those people want? Like like the they? Yeah, the they. If there is part of this is social media algorithms have reverse-engineered the way that humans' brains work, because it's a very simple algorithm. It's super simple. And the fact that it's simple is why it's so effective, because