it's 50° in the room?" So context is really important. >> Was he hungry? Yeah. >> [snorts] >> And then clusters. So like one behavior is not that much to like if if you're in something that's high stakes, you want to look for a mountain of behaviors. So like his breathing rate increased, we had pupil dilation, he licked his lips, and he was tapping his finger that he did hadn't done before, and his language shifted. He started becoming more He lost his verbal fluency. So he's more hesitant in his language and stuff. We're like we we typically want to see a stack of of many different things. And in in body language I don't know why uh I got obsessed with it for a while. I'm really not. I'm kind of over it, but in body language you deal in likelihood. It's like a meteorologist. It's not like yes, it's definitely going to rain at 3:15 p.m. today. We're looking at here's historical stuff that's happened. Here's something that's happening now. Here's a likelihood that something will happen. Is there a reliable way that stress changes your behavior? Yes. And what do you mean by that? You begin to get stressed about something Yeah. while we're communicating. Yeah. Some idiosyncratic there's a baseline and then there's deviations from the baseline. >> Yeah. But presumably there are also some relatively common patterns that happen across everybody regardless of whether they're a finger tapper or a foot tapper or a neck scratcher. Yeah. So, the the most common thing that you want to look for is what stress does, it we have a little cortisol that comes up, but if if it's real stress, the person's also going to have a little dump of epinephrine, which is adrenaline. And when the body says, "Whoa, you know, there's a little too much adrenaline here. I need to burn some of this [ __ ] off." It's going to move like the you'll see their foot you'll see their body move because their foot's tapping a lot or you'll see like some part of their body they'll think, "Oh yeah, I was just tapping my foot cuz it's convenient." But the what their body's doing is burning off excess adrenaline because of the stress. >> Yeah. So, right when you see like someone start burning off stress, the stress started like 10 15 seconds before that. That's interesting. This thing has occurred. Epinephrine's increased. I need to burn this off. Movement. >> Yeah. Frequent quick moving movement. Yeah. And a lot of people do it through stiffness, too. So, you'll see someone go from rigid and I can I can burn it off like this. Like I'm I'm going to my body gets more rigid, my posture and everything. The stress makes >> actively tensing as opposed to just being still. Yeah. Right. From stillness to stiffness, maybe. >> That's interesting. Just go back to Can you recap the behaviors that display insecurity again? Yeah, so protecting arteries is number one. And this is brachial, carotid, femoral. And this arm wrap that uh you'll see more likely in women of wrapping like a single arm like this. Uh protecting the uterus. And incomplete gestures. So, someone makes a gesture, they don't complete it, and then they kind of stop or they it's interrupted. >> Yeah. Interrupted gestures. What's going on then? It's self-doubt. Like, am I allowed to do this? Is do I have permission to do this? Is this going to make me look weird? How am I being perceived? It's so it's a lot of like people that are insecure experiencing insecurity. It's about self-perception. Like how am how is Chris perceiving me? Does he like me? Is there something wrong? Am I being judged right now? So and maybe I need maybe it was too fast. Maybe I did this thing weirdly. Maybe I need to slow down. Can I grab this thing right now? Not open. Can I open it on a podcast? It's got a loud ass thing next to a microphone. All of that kind of stuff. I've been wondering I've been wondering this whole time. Um and that is the same presumably as the micro pauses when it comes to words communication. Am I okay to say this thing? I'm unsure. I've got more processing power. I guess there's more going on than just that. Um uncertainty about what I'm saying, how I'm going to say it, where am I going next, what did I just say, how is this couched in broader context of what I've been saying throughout this entire conversation. >> Yeah, it's a lot more self-management. And if you're wanting to spot insecurity changes, watch for someone in a conversation that their lips have been parted the whole time. And all of a sudden they're like, oh yeah. And they close their lips and they stay closed a little bit. So that's another one. So if you're seeing a little bit a tiny bit of stress behavior and then their lips close when they're normally just if we're really interested in something our lips part just a little bit. Uh and then when we experience a little bit of stress, we'll have lip closure again. I remember seeing a image of someone doing the holding gesture. That thing. And it was described it's a very British thing to do. I don't know whether you're aware of this. So there's something in the UK called chavs. Chavs are a little bit like Hicks or rednecks. Sort of um antisocial behavior. That's not to dismiss Hicks and rednecks. Many of them There's some of them in this room. But uh Yeah, I've been to Stoke-on-Trent. The The Okay, that city That city If that city was a person, that person would be a chav. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. Um that uh antisocial behavior thing is was was a meme in the UK probably until the early 2010s and that and then it kind of stopped and it doesn't really exist anymore. And it was a meme of someone saying, "The face that I make when I walk past a grandmother walking her small dog in the street to show her that I'm not a chav or a threat." And I've noticed I bet there's a German word to describe exactly that entire phrase. >> Correct. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The Schadenfreude equivalent of of whatever it is. There's one of my favorite It's a Zugrubna, which is the frustration that migratory birds feel when they are prevented from migrating. Of course there's a word for that. >> [laughter] >> German's so good, dude. Must be a nightmare to learn. Um but yeah, is that's Actually, that would be a good example. What are some of the reliable body language signals, behaviors that people put across when they're not a threat? Oh, you'll see more open palms. Okay. Uh and typically at navel height. Navel height. And this comes from a friend of mine, Mark Bowden, uh body language expert. Uh we have a show called The Behavior Panel. Have you heard of this on YouTube? Uh it's four of us, four uh body language dudes. Nerds, yeah. >> what it is. Um and all of us just nerd out on body language, but we'll take every week we'll take video and break it down. Police body cam video, celebrity video, parents saying their kids missing and we'll be like, "Uh their kid might not be missing." And like, well I love this [ __ ] dude. >> And we'll break down this is I'm going to be watching this for the next few weeks. This is my sort of stuff. Yeah, it was like we were just doing it during COVID for fun and then we like had a million subscribers in short order and then it was fun for all of us so we just kept doing it. What was your question there? Non-threatening behavior because grandma walking down the street doing the Yeah. That thing. And this you know they they did research on that in New York. Uh and they called it like right after 9/11 these researchers noticed that you New York New Yorkers would greet each other like this like Mhm. And they called it a shared grief expression. Cuz New Yorkers don't talk to each other anyway so they're like like that. Uh it was the first time that thing really had a good name. >> like two New Yorkers kissing. Yeah. >> That's about as intimate as New York as can get. >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. But Mark Bowden has this thing called the truth plane where when we make these gestures that are open palmed and we're speaking to somebody and it's kind of at navel belly button height. >> Mhm. Something Trump does quite a lot, I think. >> Yeah. And it it makes somebody more likely to trust what we're saying. Um and so like when when I'm saying like exposing palms means that somebody's a little bit more trustworthy. Mhm. I don't mean like, "Hey, what's up?" Like that like they've got their hands >> Yeah, super cult leader. This he calls this the ecstatic plane and this is the truth plane down here. And he's got some great names for a lot of these. There's a there's a rare number of occasions where your hands should be above your shoulders. Very rare. And he's probably Mark's I bet Mark has a list. I don't know what it is. >> yeah. But the other ones are just smoothness of movement and is the person performing or just being? And that doesn't mean they're bad or they're deceptive or anything one of the first things I look at when I meet a person is are they are they in front of their eyes or kind of just jammed back here wondering what's going on, wondering how they're being perceived. Like are they present in what's going on? So when I train people that's one of the big things is like just pulling their awareness out in front of their eyes so they can they're a lot more present. They're here. Yeah. >> [snorts] >> What about early warning signs that somebody is a threat or may have aggression? It's so hard to predict, especially if somebody's trying to hide it. The I train law enforcement in some of these and it's still very hard to predict. That we that we talked about four different types. There's c o p e. It's concealment, oxygenation, preparation, and expenditure. Like they're trying to burn off energy. And in the concealment aspect, you really want someone who is concealing their intention. So right before some kind of violent action takes place, they'll break eye contact but keep you in peripheral vision for a prolonged period of time. And the second piece of that is you'll see a dominant foot withdrawal. Even if they're not going to punch you, you're going to see broken eye contact and dominant shoulder either start moving away or dominant foot going back. Um and then it's kind of blading the body but getting kind of prepared for an attack. And in America what we teach the police is it like no one can draw a weapon from concealment without making a 90-degree angle with your body. So like if you're not seeing 90-degree angles, they're not going to they can't get a weapon. >> what you mean. So like if I have a Show me where I've got a weapon, anywhere you like. Oh, right in the front. >> So I'm hit 90 degrees just reaching for the for the weapon, right? So if I'm if I'm talking to somebody who's standing there and I'm a police officer and I see someone quickly move to a 90-degree position, I need to be very focused on what's going on. It doesn't mean they're drawing a weapon, but you cannot draw a weapon from concealment without this 90° phenomenon. Mhm. Mhm. One of my favorite insights about blading is from Robin Dunbar, and he has this book called Friends. A cool thing that you can do the next time that you're a party is look at the angle of the feet of men talking to each other and of women talking to each other. Women talk perpendicular. They talk 180°. >> Yeah. Feet to feet, straight on. Men talk at about 120°. They blade. It's more shoulder to shoulder. And if you're a guy, just try the next time that you're talking to someone, ideally someone that you don't know super well, maybe someone that you just met, rotate yourself around to 180° and go straight on, and you'll begin to feel this strange spider crawling tickling up, because typically the only time that men would have squared up to each other as if they were about to fight. Especially if you're close. Like if your distance is like 2 or 3 ft, and then you have like head-on stuff. This is why they put bars or mirrors up in bars in the in the old West. So men could talk to each other and they were side by side, but you could still see them in the mirror. >> That's interesting. >> And it would it reduced the bar fights and stuff. Why because you wouldn't misconstrue something that someone had just said? Yeah, so they're not facing each other at all. Mhm. But you and I could be sitting here side to side by side and look at each other's faces in the mirror and have a full on conversation. There's no no threatening. So we're both aligned facing the same direction. >> [clears throat] >> If you're trying to go from Joey Chestnut to Joey Swole, the RP Strength app is the best place to start. I've been in the gym for two decades, and it wasn't until this last year that I had some of the best training sessions of my life, and RP was a massive part of that. Actual scientist built this thing around the obsession to beat up their high school bullies and provide the most science-backed effective path to maximizing muscle gain. It tells you your exercises, how many sets, reps, the weights, everything. So, all you have to do is show up and lift. If the RP strength app could wipe your ass for you, it probably would. And it adjusts automatically every week based on how you're actually progressing. For me, following a proper evidence-based plan has made a massive difference, and if you're serious about your training, it'll do the same for you. Right now, you can follow the exact same training plan that I use and get up to $50 off the RP hypertrophy app by going to the link in the description below. Heading to rpstrength.com/modernwisdom and using the code modernwisdom at checkout. That's rpstrength.com/modernwisdom and modernwisdom at checkout. It's interesting the levels of intimacy that are opened up through not being straight on. There are certain styles of therapy that are done lying down with a therapist to your side. Therapist isn't sat at the foot of the bed staring at you like a doctor coming in flipping out a clipboard. And there's a men's sheds initiative that happened in Australia. It's pretty interesting. So, they were trying to get Australian men to talk about their mental health. Uh Australians probably not great at talking about their mental health. Men, not to And they got a two times multiplier for putting those two things together. So, instead of they tried We're going to have the Also, if you think about AA also largely shoulder to shoulder, although you can go across, but the across is further away than the shoulder. So, you have intimacy plus directness. But with the men's sheds thing, they I don't realize, but if they got guys together to do something with the front of their brain because John's broken his lawnmower, but Chris has got the good wrench, and Chase has got the hammer and the welding material. After a while, all of these guys would bring the thing in, and they'd be working together, and I'd be using the wrench, and he'd be using the hammer, or whatever. And before long, we'd be talking about the fact that John's marriage is breaking down, or that he doesn't have a good relationship with his kid, or whatever it might be, but it was the synopsis was men relate shoulder to shoulder, women relate face to face. And it's interesting. It's interesting. What What that's a good one. What other sex differences are there in communication? What are the biggest ones? You mentioned that women cover up like this. Certainly the face-to-face versus shoulder-to-shoulder thing seems pretty massive. Yeah. What are some of the other interesting ones? Uh what There's two big ones. You know, men will most often like reach for the stomach during times of uncertainty. So, just kind of scratching or adjusting. You've seen the guys on the beach that are like like how you know, somebody looking at me, they'll kind of lean back and like scratching right here like this. Like this is all like the like a pacifier for us. Oh. A little pacifying behavior. And women during the same like period of stress, since stress builds up heat, and most women have this long hair over their neck, it builds up a heat back here. So, you'll see women reach back and lift the hair over their neck for just a second to ventilate that area. And they'll do it unconsciously. >> Mhm. Uh so, those are two big ones that we see. >> you think the men's stomach thing is? What What's going on there? I've no idea. Soothing behavior. I've no Oh, it's Yeah, it's a self-soothing behavior, but I I don't know the origin of it or some what it's trying to >> Evolutionary thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh Have you seen footage of Wade Wilson in on the stand? This is the Deadpool killer. No. Okay, I'm going to This is cool. You haven't seen this one, maybe. Yeah. Jerry, can you just pull up um Deadpool killer sentencing? >> Is this from the movie Deadpool? No. So, this guy's called Wade Wilson. And there's a great You would love this. You You guys should actually do If you're still doing the reaction thing, it would be cool for you guys to do a reaction to the Netflix series that's just come out. It's called Worst X Ever. And a lot of it at least the two episodes that I saw last week, Wade Wilson's the first one, and the character Deadpool, Ryan Reynolds' character, his real name is Wade Wilson. Yeah, here we go. Here we go. And it would be only further broken if it took Wade's last breath. That broken system owes Christine and it owes Diane and it owes their families and it owes our family. So one thing that you'll see, especially in men, when you'll see this in women, too, sometimes, but you'll see it in men is we we talked about like arteries, when we want to show defiance and and and that I'm I'm not scared of you. Like if we're about to get in a fight and I'll be like, "What?" You show your neck. Yeah, so we'll like expose the arteries. Look, you'll see the arms come out like this. >> scared of you. >> Yeah, so like I'm exposing arteries and we see that in >> Neck open. Yeah, leaning back. So this is almost like a a display of absolute lack of fear. >> Dismissiveness. >> All right, let's keep going. Mr. Wilson. I think we would rest. All right. So the doctor just asked that you colloquially the defendant to ensure that he doesn't want to speak at this hearing. >> Well, Mr. Wilson, you have an opportunity just like during any of the other phases of Well, let me just finish real quick. Any of the other phases during the case, uh if you want to address the court, uh I would permit you to do that, obviously. You know, everything's recorded, uh but uh you would have that opportunity if you wish. No one can prevent you from addressing the court if you wish to and uh no one can make you address the court if you don't want to. So it is a decision that's solely left up to you if you want to address the court or not. >> Not today. Later, when I come back, I will. Today? All right, pause that. Okay. So what you saw like right before he was talking, you saw the lip licking. Mhm. >> That's the hygienic gesture to improve his appearance there. >> Mhm. Mhm. Uh you didn't see him lean forward or anything. He's trying to maintain some kind of control in the situation. He probably thrives on a lot of autonomy and and just knowing that he's kind of self-governing a little bit. You didn't see him blinking at all during that process. One of the interesting things about blinking is and I don't talk about uh body language anymore on podcasts. I usually talk about DMT and and all that kind of stuff, but >> Yeah. That's episode two. Episode two. So, blinking is one of the most reliable body language indicators ever studied. And it's cool because we spend our time looking at people's eyes throughout our conversation. Um let me show you this one like just a badass trick. I think it's badass. The average blinks per minute of human beings in conversation is around 15, give or take. 15 blinks a minute. If we are in a uh situation that is stressful, without even noticing it, our blink rate can go up to like 85, 90. And we don't even notice that our blinking has changed. It's insane. Like when I took like the math portion of my SATs, I suck at math, so I was I was probably at like a 90. But what happens when our our body gets focused in on something that's important, and we're watching a movie that's super interesting, our blink rate, without noticing, can go down to like a two. So, stress increases how often we blink, and it's not relaxation that that lowers it, it's focus. So, if you see these uh psychopaths that are doing these interviews like Manson, and they're just doing this to the interviewer, and his eyes are open the whole time, and he doesn't blink at all the whole time, >> Mhm. that's focus, not relaxation. Those are very different things. Uh like when I watched the movie Interstellar, my one of my favorite movies, I probably >> My favorite movie of all time. Mine, too. I I probably blinked three or four times. >> [laughter] >> It's a long movie, too. It is. Like three and a half hour movie. I own the uh Tesseract from that movie that was built by uh uh Kip Thorne. What do you mean? >> I'll have to send you a photo of it. Like a the model that