they used for the Tesseract of the the movie. >> Bookcase? No, no. Like the entire Tesseract is like you can use binoculars and look down into this thing for like 30 miles. I'll send you a picture of it. Unreal. Well, I I so interesting, let me you weren't expecting this, Love Island reference. Um Interstellar came out just before I went on this reality TV show and while I was on there, I was desperately trying to hold on to anyone that wanted to talk about nerdy [ __ ] with me. I managed to grab one of the other cast members and go and have a conversation with him and I remember I was talking about the real science of Interstellar cuz Kip Thorne released that book. He was the consultant physicist on it and then uh Brian Cox did his live show and the background of Brian Cox's live show was made by the same people that modeled Gargantua. That was the black hole. So, that's a real fully appropriately modeled using physics of the world and the universe Yeah. black hole and I went to go and see him after I got back with uh in Leeds and it was the coolest thing. I just remember that that really sticks with me the fact I was trying to have this conversation from memory about the physics of Interstellar as a non-physics person that's only seen Interstellar once. And I remember whoever's listening on this is someone listening to your mic 24 hours a day when you do these reality TV shows and I remember thinking whoever Do you have a poor bastard has been cursed with listening to me try and like card memory my way through this physics lesson is uh destined for for challenges. So, you're miked up all all day? 24 hours, yeah. And if you get up and go to the bathroom in the middle of the night, they want to they want you to put your mic on. So, you have a little uh necklace kind of like this, but it's made of elastic and then a battery pack in your pocket. There's a little wire that runs up and over. >> farted into them on purpose cuz you know >> These guys did all sorts. Yeah, it's fine. Yeah, I mean you'll just whisper stuff cuz you know that you're you're being listened to 24 hours a day and there's one person on each audio channel. So, these guys are on >> Oh, you have one human dedicated to your mic. >> Exactly. Yeah, on 8-hour shifts. 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 rotating. And I came out to the 3 weeks in and that was the end of my my time there. Was this like a Survivor? I'm sorry, I didn't know. Imagine Survivor but for [ __ ] boys. >> [laughter] >> Uh that's basically what it is. It's Navy SEAL Hell Week for people who you don't want your daughter to get married to. Okay. >> And um I came out and had these two guys come up to me. They said, "Chris, you you you don't know us. You don't know who we are. Um but we've been listening to you 8 hours a day for the last 3 weeks. And I just wanted to ask, what was the name of that book about the physics thing to do with the to do to do with the movie that you were listening to?" I was like, "Fuck, like that was I wasn't on camera." I mean, you're always on camera, but I would there was just some wanky conversation between me and Jordan, one of the other guys. And I was like, "Oh, [ __ ] you really were listening throughout the whole thing." Cuz for the rest of it I'm talking about, you know, [ __ ] But uh the one time I had an interesting conversation guys were like, "What the [ __ ] is the name of the book? Was it Kip Thorne? Is that the guy that did the thing?" So, yeah, pretty cool. The fact that we have this insight into how other people behave through their eyes, especially given that that's where we're typically looking, is I suppose the problem is in order to be a good detector of body language, eye movement, you need to not only be doing your part of the communication and thinking about what you're projecting, but you also need to be doing the detecting thing at the same time. So, it's twice as hard. Now, for the most part, I think you I don't know whether an untrained person would pay that much attention, conscious attention, to how their interlocutor is behaving unless they were to do with something out of the ordinary. Like, if I do this, you're like, "What the [ __ ] are you doing?" Yeah. But, if my breath rate increases or my blink rate changes or whatever, beyond the subperceptible, instinctive, just something is going on sense that I might have, training that in requires double the RAM. I'm not just projecting, I'm now detecting, too. It does for a minute. So, that's why I teach people to just do one or two things at a time. And if you're just an everyday guy and you're not in hostage negotiations all the time, you only need about three or four things to look for. And you only need to learn them one at a time. And when I'm like watching somebody's blink rate, I'm not I'm not sitting there like, "Oh, Chris's blink rate is now a 33, noted." Uh it's just every once in a while I'll check in on that. And if you're a good conversationalist, your goal should be can I lower our blink rate? If we start our conversation and I'm interesting to you, my goal should be like, "Oh, I'm I'm watching your blink rate go down over time." But, if you're talking to somebody, let's say you're in sales, and you see all of a sudden you mention the terms of the agreement, you mention the the APR uh interest or something, and you see blink rate go up, now now it's a beneficial item. If you're watching somebody pitch you and you're in some private capital firm, whatever they call it, um and you're seeing blink rate at the moment of discussion of finances or moment they're they're discussing uh how many prospective customers they're going to have or something like that, those those are important data points. But, if you're on a date, change the subject. Mhm. They were engaged. Now, they're a little bit more uncomfortable. Yeah, and then something stressed them out. Maybe you talked about one thing and then some unrelated thing popped up in their head, which happens to all of us. >> Mhm. Just change the topic. >> They got distracted. Yeah. Yeah, but also that means that you're maybe not being as engaging as you could do. >> Exactly. Yeah. You're either I don't like what you're talking about or I don't care what you're talking about, but either way it'd be good to bring them back in. What are the uh biggest misconceptions that we have about reading others, some of the falsehoods, lies about human behavior? I think number one is is that there's one behavior that means one thing all the time. There's a few exceptions, like blink rate. Uh is it is a difference? But then somebody's like, "Oh, what if I have asthma?" Well, like then you then it won't be a change or it'll be your baseline. What does asthma have to do with your blink rate? >> Like allergies and stuff. >> Okay. Right. >> So, like if if they're blinking fast the whole time, then who cares? Then that's your baseline. Uh so, there's a few very very few exceptions, but when you hear like this means that somebody's being deceptive that cuz they scratch their nose or something like that, I think that's one of the biggest misconceptions. I think another is is certainty. People like you'll hear body language experts all the time like absolutely this person's lying. You can tell because he did this and this at the same time. Like I I feel irresponsible ever saying that like my eyeballs are more accurate than a uh like a polygraph. That seems silly to me. Uh so, I think it's it's a likelihood game. And I think we should be honest that it's a likelihood game. No matter how good you are uh we I don't think any behavior expert in the world can still uh spot a psychopath. Even though there's all this training on out there on how to do that kind of stuff. Why? The The signals are hidden. They have spent a lifetime honing composure and >> deception. >> And And deceiving uh just being deceptive with their face and their expressions and their breathing and all that kind of stuff. Most of the time doing it unconsciously. And presumably Yeah, exactly. Presumably that would be so idiosyncratic for that one person as well. Where did that psychopathy come from? What are their patterns? What are they trying to hide? What have been their experiences in the past? And what have been their tells? And then what have been their compensations for their tells that now result in this behavior? Yeah. And you know what? I want to bring up. Jared, can you search on YouTube Danny Trejo t r e j o uh Charles Manson. So, this is a clip from The Pardon. This is interesting for you given that you talked about drugs. This interesting uh around hypnosis. So, Danny Trejo, the Hollywood actor with the massive chest tattoo, big sort of cholo dude. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh Machete, that guy. Um he Isn't he like a really nice guy in real life? >> Sickest dude. Sickest dude. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had a great conversation with him a few years ago. So, you met Charles Manson in prison, didn't you? What was that story? Can you tell us that? >> County jail. In the county jail. But let me tell you Charlie wasn't the guy >> that you saw on the TV specials. All right? He was a a Oh God, he was like 5'4" 5'5". Little scrawny He was poor, kind of like a bum, really. He He had a He had a a a string for a belt. He tied his pants with a string cuz he couldn't afford a belt. You know, and and and everybody else we dressed you know, cool iron our pants and and uh and so the some of the prisoners were going to take advantage of him cuz they'd take advantage of anybody that's small. And uh we found out that he could hypnotize you. So, we we let him sleep in front of our cell to to you know, to make sure that nobody'd hurt him and and uh he got us loaded on weed. And and three of the guys in the cell, everybody else had like six guys in their cell. We only had three cuz we were special. >> [laughter] >> I had two killers with me. So, so so uh and then uh and then he got us loaded on weed and I said, "Well, get us loaded on [clears throat] heroin." So, the three of us tried to get loaded. He got two of us loaded on heroin. One guy just woke up and afterwards I asked him, "How come How come you couldn't do him?" And he said, Never did it before. >> "Did you ever get loaded on heroin?" He said, "No. Well, your mind doesn't know how to work." Do you understand? Your mind doesn't know how to react. So, if I tell you to do something while you're hypnotized and you haven't done it before or you don't know how to do it, uh you'll just wake up. And that's what would kept happening. So, yeah, he hypnotized Danny [ __ ] Trejo >> [laughter] >> and his two cellmates. But one of the dudes hadn't done heroin before. And Danny goes on to say that when you do heroin, apparently you throw up. It's quite likely that you're going to throw up at some point. And Danny and the other guy that had done it threw up. And the dude that hadn't didn't. Yeah, this is a thing. This is a real thing. Uh for some things, like I absolute and I I'm a hypnotist uh and that was just part of learning all of this brain stuff. Went to many different hypnosis schools and trainings and stuff. I don't I don't think that you could do it with like mushrooms or LSD or anything like that because it's a such a brain connective and massively immersive experience. >> Mhm. It's too complex to replicate. Yeah, like if alcohol, you could get someone drunk very easily on hypnosis. Heroin, maybe like you're kind of creating some of that euphoria. Um but initially you want to create the the negative conditions of the thing first. Uh so your body believes that it's possible and your brain's easier at connecting or at making bad [ __ ] happen anyway. >> Like vomiting. Yeah. It's way easier for your brain to default to negative. This is why your ancestors would always uh confuse a a bear for a rock and not a rock for a bear a bear. Maybe the other way around, but so you get the negative thing first and then your brain's like, "Wow, this is really easy." Then once you do that, you're like, "This time you're not going to have this negative thing, but you have all the other positive benefits of this." There's a guy in the 1980s. I can't remember his name. Maybe I think it was Marshall Silver. But I think it was him. Uh but there was this program called drug of choice uh where you could order a audio tape and you you could order like the marijuana audio tape. And if you've ever done it before, like it would kind of recreate that experience of that drug. I've never tried it or anything, but it absolutely is possible. Going back to the deception detecting stuff, what's the best way to get the truth out of someone quickly? What in what situation? Normal conversation between you and someone that you think is being deceptive. It's cordial. You're not going to do anything too nefarious. How do you get the truth out of someone? Socialize, minimize, rationalize, and project. We say, "Chris, look, I know that I I think everybody's going to understand if if something happened, I think everybody's going to understand, and I promise you it's not a big deal to me." That's minimize. "And it makes perfect sense. Everything lined up the way it did, and [ __ ] happened the way it did. It's not a big deal. And frankly, it wasn't your fault. These people kind of put this in front of you, or this thing happened, or you downloaded that app, and you didn't know what it was. And I think everything's completely fine. But the one thing that's always been important to you and me is our friendship." "And I don't want to lose that." And then hopefully, you ask him ask him the question again. At the end of that. I wonder what it is. At each stage, I'm trying to think about if if it was me, what I'm trying to hold on to. What it is that I'm grasping for. And I think part of it is it feels like treading water and someone throwing you a lifeline, so that you're not alone, and the discomfort and the loss. The confusion of trying to hold this thing together. Someone sees. Someone sees why I did this thing. Yeah. And it's not that big of a deal anyway. If I am to admit it. But that they're with me. I think a lot of it is around I'm not going to have to bear this burden alone anymore. Yeah. Trying to sort of feel what comes up as you're Yeah. role playing this big scenario. Yeah, those are the big Those are the four reasons that your brain will kind of resist telling the truth. Mhm. People won't understand. This is a huge deal. It doesn't make sense why I did this, and it's all my fault. So, I just want to alleviate those four things. >> Yes. Yes. As fast as possible. Yes. The alleviation. Why can't people relax? What's the truth about emotional debt? I've heard you talk about this. Dude, this is a big one. I think this goes back to what we talked about in the very beginning with people carrying around shame and everybody thinks that they're the only one. If we're really really honest with ourselves, like we walk around every day, we have this we conceal shame because there are a lot of institutions that are around today that have made shame into an institution. Like social enforcement and shame. Mhm. And everyone thinks it's just me. I'm the only one hiding the [ __ ] from everybody else. If I if I start becoming real, everyone everyone's going to leave me. I'm going to be abandoned by my friends. I'm going to get outcast and judged. I have to keep hiding this. And everyone thinks it's just them. The cool thing is that it's literally 100% of people. It's every single human being is out there carrying the exact same [ __ ] as you. And they all think it's just them. That's the it's saddening, but I think it's beautiful at the same time that we all we we really do share a lot more in common, especially with the things that we hide from each other than more than a lot of us would be willing to admit. So, when we encounter like emotional debt, this is typically when I'm a little kid, what are the patterns I had to develop to earn friends and keep friends, to feel safe, or to attain some kind of social rewards, like appreciation or love or something like that. So, if something in my childhood made one of those three things happen, friends, safety, and rewards. Then that that the brain says, "Oh, this worked. I'm going to make an app out of this shit." So, your brain makes an app and says, "I know exactly how to produce this thing, so I'm going to make an app, and I'm going to run that app all the time." So, for the first couple years, it's an app that you're consciously clicking on in social situations. By the time you're like probably 12 or 13, that's solidified in your behavior. And then fast forward, you've got a 34-year-old woman working in an office who had to kiss some bully's ass in middle school, and that's all she does as an adult. Mhm. So, uh we carry all these little childhood things without knowing it, like we just this loaded childhood backpack. It's gone from being an app to being source code. Yeah, it beautifully said. Yes. And we carry it into adulthood without knowing. And we don't You can look at just about any adult in the world and say, you know, if we went back in time, what did you do to do friends, safety, and rewards back in childhood? And then you say, "Oh, you came to me for help with this XYZ thing. Look at your 8-year-old self. Let's go back in time and take a look at him." Mhm. Um and then you're like, "Oh, wow. That's it. I mean, that's all I was trying to do." And that is emotional debt. And every time we're not dealing with a lot of that stuff directly, every time we hide it from someone else, we're withdrawing from account, and we're we're kind of overdrafting everything in our life. So, concealment is is one of the most exhausting cognitively exhausting things that there is when when it comes to human behavior. Concealment is more mentally taxing than doing calculus. Like just trying to act like you've got your [ __ ] together uh in a social situation like faking it hard is harder than calculus to our brains. So I mean, [ __ ] That's it sucks uh that I mean, a lot of us are paying this emotional debt. And I think that's it. It's like the costume is heavy. The the costumes that we're wearing are just getting heavier and heavier because we keep adding stuff on it. And a lot of us by the time we hit 18, 19 years old, uh we're like a decorator crab. You know, I've kind of You know what a decorator crab is? Mhm. Can we bring up a picture of a decorator crab? So, these crabs will go around their whole life and find [ __ ] on the beach and like stick it and like glue it onto the their shells somehow. It's protection? Ornaments? Maybe distraction. Maybe like a mating ornament. I don't know why they do it. >> [snorts] >> Yeah, and they'll decorate their bodies with all kinds of crazy stuff. Okay, they do that by hand and it's not part of their body at all. >> So, that looks like it's picked up sea urchin spikes maybe >> And stuck it on somehow. >> Yeah, go back. >> the search and go one to the right of that image. Right there. That guy found some Fruit Loops or something down there on the on the ocean. So, they just stick little barnacles and stuff all over their body. And we're kind of like this. We we we go through life and we're like, you know what? I'm going to that guy did this one thing to protect himself. I'm going to I'm going to stick that on. So, we're walking around with all of this stuff on us that's not us at all. It's not me. Uh and then we go back to that thing that we originally talked about. It's like I have to go my whole life knowing that no one's ever known me. And that sucks. And that's emotional How do you advise people to process emotions so that it doesn't get deposited into the bank account or used to withdraw from the bank account? I think physicality is the best. There's a guy, his name is Dr. David Berceli, and he invented this thing called trauma discovered this thing called trauma release exercise. Or it's been known that we go into these things called neurogenic tremors all the time. Uh where our body looks like kind of like a little seizure where there's little tremors going through your body. But if you watch like a polar bear get tranquilized by some researcher and they and they it's like a paralytic a tranquilizer. The polar bear is like laid out on the ground and but he's conscious. Like you imagine