that how terrifying that's like worse than an alien abduction. That's like an alien and abduction for us. So this polar bear goes through trauma and what is the first thing that happens to the the anesthesia thing starts wearing off and his body goes into these convulsions and shaking movements and big breaths and it's all completely autonomic. He's not really consciously controlling any of it. He's just letting his body do what it does. Squirrels do the same thing. After an impala gets bit by a tiger >> I've seen zebras do the same thing. Yeah, zebras um and Robert Sapolsky wrote a book about a lot of this stuff but how nature knows what to do. It doesn't suppress healing mechanisms. It's called Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers. And but they figured out that humans suppress this this tremor mechanism. Why do you think that is? To avoid being seen as strange by the people around us? That this is a indication of weakness? That I was bothered. Yeah, I think you hit the nail perfectly on the head there. Like there's some weird if I jiggle around on the floor in front of the tribe, they're going to think I'm sick. What if they throw me over the cliff like old Jimmy last year when he was sick, you know? >> Well, if nothing else, even if they correctly identify it, they don't think that you've got leprosy or you've gone insane, what they do know is that your capacity has been breached. Yeah, your nervous system's ability to withstand this was taken over the edge. You You have a clock just so you were over clocked by somebody else, which is an indication of weakness. Yeah. It's so true. But he basically he's not teaching you a technique, he's just helping you to find the switch in your body that you've been suppressing like your entire life. And we had to do it after a deployment that I was I did 20 years in the military. So I did a bunch of deployments. But one of these deployments we came back it was rough. But we had to go through this trauma releasing exercise it's a different under a different brand name like than this Dr. Bercelli. But it was maybe the most profound emotional transformation I've ever made in my life other than psychedelics. It's unbelievable. And it's your body knows how to do it. Every mammal on earth does this automatically. And it is life changing and it's free. It's totally free. You go on YouTube and learn how to do it and it's it's unbelievable. And it's every mammal does it and during this lady's presentation to us when we got back from the deployment she says raise your hand if you've ever seen a depressed squirrel. >> [laughter] >> Or a zebra. Like a zebra doesn't get bit by a croc and go back to his tribe like guys had a [ __ ] day. And I need to curl up under that tree for like nine days and people need to bring me food. That doesn't happen. Like they're somehow they're over stuff a lot quicker than we get over stuff. Even though we make more meaning about the situation than that than the zebras do. How do you come to think about the role of shame in people's lives? I think shame has been institutionalized on purpose by many different uh places and we learn as we're little kids like if I feel shame about something I need to conceal it and I've learned a new part of me that I can wall off and I don't need to show anybody. So if I'm ashamed about anything it doesn't make shame doesn't make you a good person. And I think a lot of people think that if I feel ashamed about something that makes me moral that makes me good as a human being. It doesn't it just ruins your life. It doesn't make you a good person. London interesting thing from Rob Henderson what a book that he was reading taught somebody's guilt seems to be proportional to their perceived likelihood of being caught. Wait. Someone's guilt The amount of guilt that you feel tends to be proportional to how likely you perceive it that you're going to be caught for whatever you're guilty about. >> Wow. That's really good. >> Isn't that fascinating? >> Yeah. That our level of guilt for something that we know we can't be caught for is so much less. Now obviously there's a the scales have a a bunch of different things going on here. So on one side there might be the severity of what you did. You know, you could uh kill somebody and immediately get them watch them be eaten by an alligator whole or a python or something and you go well there's no chance but it's such a a huge transgression of what your typical behavior would be that that's something that you would take very badly or you can have something that's much smaller but has a much higher likelihood of getting caught. You know, you threw chewing gum down but you threw it down right at the teacher's feet and you don't know if he saw or not and that would be a big deal. And then there's a sort of everything in between that. Those are the two That's the spectrum of crime by the way. There's chewing gum and killing killing someone. That's that's the that's those are the two ends. The Overton window of crime. And I I just loved that idea that the level of guilt that we feel about anything that we've done you it's not just the severity of whatever it is. It's not just your conscious consciousness coming in saying like you that was not your best self speaking or acting or whatever. How likely is it that I think that I'm going to be caught? And as that gets closer and closer and closer your level of guilt increases. Yeah. Uh I you know I was thinking about with the Epstein files, the day that the Epstein files came out Yeah. What? Uh we saw a lot of people get real quiet while they were waiting to see what was released. Mhm. Well, if you think about what that day must have been like for those people horrible. You you certainly not going to chalk it up if you're a zebra you're going home and telling your your your family I had a [ __ ] day today. I got the equivalent of bit on the ass by an alligator but I it happened in the court of public opinion. Uh however in some ways the um concealment tax that was being paid. You know your name's in them. You know your name's in them. You know that there are being investigations and releases are happening and yeah, I mean you could hope This is something else I was having this conversation last night. You don't need karma to deliver spiritual justice. Right? All that is is someone repeating their patterns and behaviors enough times until reality finally gives them what they deserve. So, imagine that you're a bad person. You treat most people that you interact with poorly. You screw them over in one form or another maybe the same way maybe in different ways. The only way that you make it to the end of your life without that coming to the surface is by basically beating the odds. Yeah. You've stacked the deck against yourself, and what you're hoping is that you can somehow sort of, you know, tiptoe Captain Sparrow to dance your way through this minefield and avoid all of the different tripwires and get to the other side. >> And [ __ ] I did it. >> Yeah. And then you die, or whatever. Um that sense that a lot of people have of "That person [ __ ] That just deserts. Like the how the how the Like how is nobody cottoned on to this thing that I think that I see about this person?" And maybe you're right. Let's assume that you're right about your character assessment about this person that they're a bad person and that they're stuff should have gone into them. What someone is doing is basically stacking against the the deck against themselves, but presuming that you've got a relatively functioning conscience, that concealment burden is going to start to stack up and stack up and stack up, and especially if you know that there's an investigation coming and that people are getting closer and that maybe the guilt da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da So, yeah, some people Sure, they are bad people who make it to the end of their life without having been rumbled. But the only way that they did that was basically through luck. They fluked their way through this lop to make it to the end of Which is rare. Most people end up getting what they deserve. >> My my mentor used to call that the their that person's safe is full. Mhm. >> Like they've locked up a whole lot of stuff, you know, it's just it's ready to bust open. >> Mhm. And they're easier to get to confess, they're easier to do all kinds of stuff cuz their safe is so full. That's concealment burden is high. Yeah. Level of emotional stress, ambient emotional stress also high. >> And the need to release that pressure. Mhm. The release valve thing. Yeah. And that's that's not even the economic pressure around the world. That's the emotional pressure inside. So, and we get to choose the release valve form. >> Mhm. How's what we've spoken about to do with shame and childhood patterns related to the trauma triangle? Is that all wrapped up inside of that? I think I think it might be. I don't know. I don't think we know [ __ ] about consciousness and all that. There's so many people who have so much certainty that I would be embarrassed showing that level of certainty about oh, this is exactly how the brain works. I studied neuroscience for 9 years. We have zero clue how the brain works. We don't know where memories are stored. We don't even know what they're made of. And and like they're doing all these experiments now that showing that consciousness might be non-local. I think you've had a few people on. Panpsychists. Yeah. Yeah. Um it it it just looks like it starts that's starting to explain a whole lot of stuff that we were calling anomalies that it just might not be an anomaly. And Rupert Sheldrake is is one of these guys. >> Friend of the show? Yeah. Dude, I love that guy so much. >> Morphic resonance is such a [ __ ] cool idea, man. Like it's What's interesting to me stuff like the Danny Trejo thing is a good example of that, but that's story-based. Right? Stories stick with you for a good while. If you hear about a dude that was a famous cult leader and a guy that's a famous movie actor being in jail together wearing a rope around his waist getting loaded on heroin through hypnosis. I you I'll I'm I'll forget my children's names before I forget that, right? On my deathbed. >> Yeah. Um but the Sheldrake thing with the morphic resonance that dogs are able to detect when their owners are coming home even when they alter the vehicle and the time and the mode of transport and the person and they go to the window, the Did you see the one about um is it s- starlings dunking their heads into glass milk bottles. Did you ever learn this one? No. This is [ __ ] crazy. Let me hear it. So, um, there was a type of bird that existed I want to say in in the UK during World War II. Uh, before World War II. And the glass milk bottles that would be put out by the milkman on everyone's front doorstep. Did that ever happen in the US? Oh, yeah. I think before my >> have a milkman? Yeah. Okay, that exists. Okay, I I have a Dude, I don't know about this country. It's like 3 seconds old. You know what I mean? I want to I want a millennia old country like mine. Anyway, I like this place. I spent too much time in a Costco this morning. And there was a glass bottle that you would leave out and it would have a foil lid and the foil coloring on the lid would be semi-skimmed, full fat, gold top, whatever. And, um, birds had realized that they could pierce the foil cuz it's only thin and they could stick their beaks in and they could drink the top filtering of this thing. Uh, and you would often, apparently, because if you've ever put your finger into a Corona to shove a lime down, weird sort of [ __ ] I'm stuck. Like, you really need to wiggle it to get it out. And a lot of the time people would arrive at the front doorstep and just see an upended bird. It's not like a Molotov cocktail, but it's got a sparrow sticking out the top of [ __ ] light this. Um, and then during World War II all of that stopped because of the Battle of Britain and the blackout, there were no milk deliveries. So, that meant that all of the birds had stopped to learn this thing. For generations of birds had stopped to learn this thing. And then when it came back, it had taken a a long time for this to be developed and they'd done a a analysis of this. Rupert's guys have done a statistical analysis of this. And uh as soon as the milkman began doing it again, immediately a generation of birds that had never seen a milkman and never seen milk bottles started doing it straight away. And you've seen this stuff where they teach mice to solve a maze in LA and mice that are in New York are able to solve the maze more quickly. >> Yeah. It [snorts] which is insane. There's a 10-year-old boy in Japan, 10 years old, that was the first in the world, and this is recently, maybe this year, proved that a a butterfly retains the memory of its ancestors. And a butterfly memory also survives caterpillar metamorphosis. Because it's fully liquidized. Right. A caterpillar going to a a butterfly is completely liquidized. Yeah. Yeah. And and and the memory goes through not just generations, but goes through the entire chrysalis phase of butterfly, whatever that's called, transformation. >> How did the 10-year-old boy prove it? Lavender. So, when they're caterpillars, he gives them a tiny little shock. Uh but the boy was so kind that he shocked them on his own arm, so he could feel it, too, like with the caterpillars, cuz he didn't want to give them too much shocking. But he exposes them to lavender and a shock at the same time, over and over and over. I know, three times a day, maybe, per caterpillar. Little electric shock? Yeah, but it's like a a large, like a TENS unit pad, but it's like that big. I saw it, and he put it on his arm, and he gently folded over it, cuz he didn't want to hurt the caterpillar. Yeah. You know, he considered them as friends. It's not like this modern scientists who are just, yeah, let's torture his ass. Um so, this is Pavlovian stuff. >> And then, when they become butterflies, he builds this tube that's a Y shape, so they fly down this thing, and they've got this fork in the road with sugar water at the end of both, and one of them has a little cotton ball that has lavender on it. Uh and they he proved that these butterflies that have that he had trained, the caterpillar, went straight off to the right away from the the lavender because they had it associated with negative memory, and their children did the same thing. Or their offspring did the exact same thing. And have you read Irreducible Suble? What? Federico Faggin? What's that? Uh it's just it's kind of an argument against materialist reductionism. Okay. And And you're familiar with the concept of It's basically like if there's a let's say like Chris, let's go understand music. We're going to go understand music. We have 500 years to figure this out. So, we go to the Philharmonic, and all the instruments are out there. We're like, you know what we're going to do first? Let's chop this cello over there into 6,000 pieces and study it for 10 years under a microscope. Hm. And we understand music zero. But we've broken everything down into its tiny little parts, and then finally somebody says, "We've had a massive breakthrough. We found the sheet music in the front of the orchestra." And then the lead scientist is like, "Good. Cut it up. Put it under the microscope." And then we we're like, "The sheet music makes the music. So, of course we can just put it under the microscope, and I don't know why, but this music looks like paper. It doesn't look like music. So, the argument is like if we keep just breaking things down into elements, we're missing the the the substance of of what's really there. You familiar with Daniel Schmachtenberger? Do you know who that is? >> No. It's a surname that you don't forget. He's been on the show twice now, and he's got great talk on emergence. I'm going to send it to you. It's a little bit It's very dense, actually. Um I fell in love with this guy's thinking. He's been a good friend ever since. Um, but he's got this idea, basically, which is kind of basic, right? That there can be combinations of things that allow properties to emerge that individually do not. Right? You know this if you put um sodium in water or whatever, and you get a particular like an interesting reaction. But the same thing is true with regards to what you're saying here, that analyzing things in isolation don't explain what happens when they come together. And the inverse of this, which I first heard from him, but then Naval reused, was human beings locally reverse entropy. Locally reverse entropy. The entire universe aiming toward entropy, and we locally reverse it for a brief time. Yeah. Ultimately, the universe is going to win, right? The battle is ours, but the war is always going to be theirs. Yeah. It's I just love that I love that idea. I love the idea that we locally reverse entropy. It's really cool. >> And it's beautiful. And it's I mean, it's like somebody studying DMT and saying, "Oh, yeah, it activates a receptor on your 5-HT2A serotonin receptor." Like, "Yeah, yeah, that's what's made our ancestors see the exact same thing for 4,500 years." And that's what creates the entities, you know. It's silly to think that we can really comprehend everything. We can't even define or understand consciousness. And we're like, "Oh, yeah, it's a it's a receptor activator. It's a receptor agonist." And I just think that there's way too much certainty about this stuff. We need more scientists just finishing a few sentences with as far as we know. Mhm. If we just had that, a little bit more of of as far as we know, uh I think science would advance a lot faster because it's it's it's dogmatic at this point. I want to talk about the DMT stuff. I feel like there's a million things to get into that we haven't, but let's let's let's bring this one into land here cuz this has been really really fascinating. What's this new show where you told your team if we don't get death threats within the first 6 months, we're not doing our job? So, I uh the origin of this is I took an Adderall one morning. Great start to a day. And uh Go on. I got distracted doing some work and I was like, "Shit, I didn't take an Adderall." And I took another one. Which I I've never done. Is it my brain was not prepared for this. And I also uh do a a little daily microdose action. And all that mixed together and I was just sitting there at my desk typing or going through emails or something. I was like, "You know what?" Randomly, I was like, "I need to start a TV station." Uh, and I did. That does sound like the sort of thing someone who's taken two tabs of Adderall and some mushrooms would come up with. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I was like, "You know what? I could beat Fox. I could beat I could beat mainstream news." So, we built and own a television studio now and we have a daily news show that's about to start coming out. Maybe by the time this is released, we'll have a video out. Um, it's called Station 1 on YouTube. We have one or two videos out, but we're going to start daily news. And we're also going to every every day you'll get the news, but you'll also get how everything that you're you're being shown as different stories are actually connected. All of the sciops layers with actual registers and receipts for every single thing of how the news is being uh used to frame a narrative. Uh, all of that will be made public. And then every single day on the news, we'll tell you in the next 70 72 hours, here's what to look out for. If you see these three words in a bill that Congress passes at like 2:00 a.m., you need to watch out for this thing. If this oil company invests in this one thing in the next four days, you need to watch out for this. This is probably going to happen. So every single day it should feel and we follow the format of the president's daily beat brief from the director of the CIA. And that's the daily news. It's like the president's daily brief, exact format. Uh and I think it's going to be good. I think people are going to like it and there's no narrative. There's no left and right uh politics, which doesn't really exist. Uh And I think it's I think it's going to be pretty cool. Thank you. Chase Hughes, ladies and gentlemen. Chase, you're a awesome man. I'm looking forward to speaking to you next time. Me, too. Thanks, Chris. All right. See you next time, everyone. Dude, [ __ ] crushed it. So good. Appreciate it, bro. Thank you very much for tuning in. If you enjoyed that episode, YouTube knows who you are. Deeply. It thinks you're going to like this one even [music] more. Go on. Press it.