if you started to put constraints on it, you would be trying to predict the best way to get the outcome that you want. The best way to get the outcome that you want is to just let it optimize for that outcome and reverse-engineer however it got that. >> Yeah. That's why we can complain all we want about the algorithms, but even the engineers, you open up the black box of YouTube, you open up the black box of TikTok, they don't know what's happening inside of that. There is no knowing about what's happening inside of that. This is just recursive algorithms training itself. Yeah. Interestingly, the coolest thing I learned about this is from Stuart Russell, guy that wrote the textbook on AI, so up until probably 2020 when the transformer technology and LLMs came along. It may still be the case. I know he's still talking about this a lot. I think his textbook had been translated into 100 languages. So, it was it was used around the world. It was the canonical textbook for AI, Stuart Russell. He wrote this book called Human Compatible. He's talking about computers, humans, some psychology, a lot of AI and and and computer science. He said that there's two ways that algorithms can become better at predicting what it is that you're going to click on. The first one is serving you content which is more akin to something that you want to press, right? Like if you all that you're trying to optimize is CTR and watch time, basically, which is kind of every every algorithm now. >> [gasps] >> I can just better predict what it is that you want and give you that. The other side is I can nudge your preferences to make them easier to predict. So, it's a bidirectional relationship. And it's not like anybody told the black box algorithm to go and do this, but over time it knows, "Hey, if I walk people down this sequence of steps." And this is where I think the truth about pipelines and radicalization comes along. But, it's not necessarily radicalization to an extreme of one particular world view, it's an extreme of predictability. Yeah. And this bidirectional relationship between becoming better at working out what you want to click and becoming better at making you more predictable to work out your preferences, Yeah. that is really I mean, it's when he told me about it, it blew my mind. It's one of the most mind-blowing things that I've ever heard. Dude, I I've got to read this because [ __ ] spectacular, eh? When when I teach uh like persuasion and influence, I'm actually here in in town today teaching. I was I've been on stage all morning uh doing a like a seminar You need a new title. That's what you need. Yeah. So, when I teach, I what I'm telling people is your first goal is being able to engineer and build the perfect client. So, I'm I'm make the person the perfect recipient for what I need to give them. Mhm. So, if I know the outcome is I need you to click on baby deer videos, I'm going to engineer the [ __ ] out of that to where I'm not going to like just start showing them to you. I'm going to make you the perfect recipient before I start shifting your behavior. So, the the way that I typically describe this is if you learn persuasion, interrogation, sales, whatever it is, they're going to teach you how to engineer outcomes because people are obsessed with the outcome. But, I argue that if you're good, what you engineer are conditions. And if I can engineer the right conditions, I can get you to do anything. Mhm. Anything. And just as an example just of how powerful conditions and context are, I think it was in the 1940s, this uh like stage hypnotist guy is doing like a comedy club thing, you know, where like, "Oh, the guy next to you farted and it smells really bad. You're on a roller coaster now." And there's like all of this stuff where there's like 10 or 15 people up on stage. >> [gasps] [snorts] >> And then a part of the show is, "All right, all of you are cops. You got called to a party. Everybody in the audience is a party right now. And the more the audience laughs, the more you're going to get upset." So, they get up and they're not allowed to leave the stage, so they're all kind of yelling like pretending like these kids are like a house party or something. Then he's like, "Oh, one of them's got a gun. He's going to take you down." And one of these guys on the stage is an off-duty police officer uh carrying a weapon, starts firing in into the crowd, a real gun. >> [gasps] >> Um and I think one person was in I don't know I don't know if he died, but it shot a real gun into a crowd. The cop was a good person, well-meaning, just wanted to go out with his wife, uh you know, for an evening. >> [snorts] >> But context can dictate your behavior no matter what. Like we're going to probably both you and I, not together, but we will get naked by the end of the day, both of us. But the day is young. The day is young. We're going to get into a shower, get into a bath, whatever. Um but we're not like as we're standing in front of the shower, we're not like, "Oh, I don't know if I should." We're just we just get naked, right? So context context tells us what's allowed. So if I can modify context, I can get you to do anything. Mhm. All I have to do is it's a PCP formula. I change your perception about the situation that's going on. Then I say, "Yeah, since you're viewing this differently, it's actually this situation where people are trying to do X." Or I reframe this as someone is a a complete threat. But I've changed your perception of what's possible to do. Then the con- uh the context is so a some person is a threat. And they're they are a mortal Now I say the word mortal. They're a mortal threat. So I've changed the category. And if I shift category and context, that changes what you think you're allowed to do and what you're not allowed to do. Does that make sense? So like if I if I'm in a perfect world, the only question, like if you're really good at this stuff, like a lot of these systems are what is the context where the behavior I want you to do is automatic? What is the context? So if I can make you believe that you're in a shooting range and you're actually standing in a bar, you're going to your behavior is going to be very different. So what you're what you're really seeing over time is a is a drift of perception and then context. So with this PCP, perception, context, and permission. Permission is that final thing that says, "Oh, in this context I'm I'm completely allowed to do this and it makes perfect sense." So a lot of what we're seeing is context engineering. So if if you look at the Milgram experiment, which I think a lot of people are familiar with, essentially some they proved that you people will shock strangers what they think is to death in about 47 minutes. At a 70% success rate or failure rate, whatever you want to call that. Um but they didn't have a script. There wasn't some magic sales script where they where they brought them in and they had the right words to say in the in the magic hypnosis guy that comes in there. It's just a dude in a lab coat. And all they did in the Milgram experiment is engineer the conditions that make it okay. The context made made that shocking behavior uh permissible. You mentioned there about people or technologies that are unbelievably good at manipulating behavior. When it comes to seeing operators, people, who's the most effective behavioral manipulator that you've ever seen operate in front of you? I can't say names. Uh the guy is uh I think he's still active, but um he could get pretty much any but any do anything, but he shifted the context. So what the the task that I gave him is go into this social very social environment. There's like a band playing and it's like a bar, like a pub. >> This is a real thing. Yeah. And I said, "I want you to have someone let's say laid out on the floor thinking that they're just completely unconscious in like 7 minutes. And I didn't I couldn't hear anything that was being said and he did it. He did it within like 3 4 minutes. And I asked him I said, "What did you do?" He's like, "Oh, I just told her I was a hypnotherapist and I asked what she wanted to how she wanted to change her life and she was really really excited that she wanted more discipline and I just told her I would give her more discipline and it's really easy. So, he shifted the context to her being helped instead of controlled. Mhm. Um and and made it okay for her to be laying on the floor and made everything okay just cuz he shifted the context. Um it's the same in interrogation rooms to where the context shifts and there's like a five-step protocol that people use to make someone confess to a crime. And if you really examine what the protocol is, it's just a massive shift in context and perception. What's the protocol? You ready? Yes. So, it's a socialize, minimize, rationalize, and project. >> [clears throat] >> Is that not four? Yeah, it's four steps and then there's an alternative question at the end. Is it this or this? So, just like name a name a crime that's not gross that we can actually talk about. Anything you want like stolen money. >> Texting while driving. Okay, texting while Well, they're not going to be in an interrogation room. Okay, yeah, cool. Uh uh uh um smuggling arms. Okay, smuggling arms. Great. All right, so the first step would be social. >> [ __ ] interrogation room for texting while driving. >> [laughter] >> There's just armies of interrogators up and down the United States highways. Okay. It was it might solve the problem. Okay, so smuggling arms. So, you're talking to this person and you decided that it's time to shift into interrogation. The beginning of an interrogation is called interview process and that the shift is called the confrontation. So, the confrontation uh is basically just where you tell them like you're that they're lying, but you don't do it in a way that hurts their ego. Uh so, I might say something like, "Chris, I appreciate you, and I just want you to know I've been doing this a really long time. I've I've talked to a lot of people. And if there's if there's one thing I know for sure, it's when I'm not getting the full story. And I don't think I'm getting the full story here." And then I go right into the socialize part of this thing. And when I say socialize, it's basically people will understand. So, the line is, "I think at the end of the day, um you did this because you're a good person. And I'm going to explain why. And I've talked to a lot of bad people, and I know you're not a bad person. And I think when people see all the steps that led up to you getting wrapped up in this that they're going to understand. Then minimize. And like I said, I don't think you're a bad guy. And And to be honest, I deal with bad people all the time, and people that have done way worse stuff than this. I've seen people that have done way worse than this get completely over it. So, it's not that big of a deal. I'm not Nobody's accusing you of being some mass murderer or something like that. This is not the same thing. Then it's rationalize. I know you came from a a poor village. I know that you had a really tough background, and I know that you're a good person. And I'm not saying whether or not you were doing this to pay for it, but I know that your aunt has several hundred thousand dollars in medical bills that she's needed to pay. Now, I project. So, now project is basically it's not your fault. And I think anybody that was handed your conditions and your life would have probably made the same choices that you did. And there's I know a lot of times these arms smuggling rings will use threats and pressure to get someone into the unit. So, if that happened to you, I just want you to know that's something that I want to know about so I know that you didn't like deliberately decide to do this. And then we move into the alternative question. And I'll say, "So, Chris, what I'm really trying to find out here is were you doing this just to make a bunch of money and then go buy a bunch of drugs and live in some other country or you really like trying to help one of your family members? Cuz I know these guys have been talking to you and I've looked into you as well and it doesn't look like you're a bad person. So, now it's an alternative question of are you a piece of crap or did you try to do something good for your family? So, that's >> Both of them are admissions of guilt, though. Yeah. Yeah. We're just trying to find out the reason that this happened. You're not. You're trying to find out an admission of guilt. Yes. Yes. But in the in the conversation we're trying to find out the reason it happened. >> [snorts] >> So, we're going for the admission of guilt because the the first part of the interrogation we there's like a long series of questions we ask and based on those responses, if they respond a certain way to each question, then we move towards the uh confession methodology. Mhm. So, they're and they're basic questions like um if if I if there was a robbery or in some neighborhood here uh can I say the city that we're in? Of course. Okay. So, let's say like two blocks away and maybe yeah, two blocks from here there's a neighborhood in Austin and there's a there's a neighborhood there and let's say you robbed a house. One of those questions to determine how guilty you are is one of my favorite questions in the world. It's called the bait question. And it basically says um let's let's imagine you did this. I want to put you in the mindset so you can understand the question. Let's say you you stole a bike out of this person's garage a couple days ago. I called you up and was like, "Hey, I think you might have seen something that's going to help us in the case. Could you please come in here and talk to us about the about the case?" You come in and I say, "Chris, dude, thank you for for coming in. Uh this is important to us. We've got officers out there that they've been working all through the night uh collecting evidence and stuff. I just want to ask you one question and you seem like a really good guy. So, I want you to think really carefully before you answer this. Is there any reason whatsoever that one of the neighbors would have a Ring doorbell camera that shows your vehicle in that area? So, now you're confronted with a dilemma of if I say no and he whoops out a video, now I'm a liar and they probably know that I did this. If I say yes, I'm at I'm placing myself at the scene of the crime, right? And the cool thing is that someone who's innocent would be like, "Nope." And you'd be instantly they would have no hesitation, they'd have tons of confidence of, "Nope, there's absolutely no reason." So, that's one of those those kind of setup questions. And another one >> of whether you've got the Ring doorbell footage or not. Yes, and I don't say that I have it. Is there any reason why? Yes. Is there any reason that one of the officers would have received some Ring doorbell or some doorbell video camera footage that shows your vehicle in that area? Not you do anything bad. Um and another one is an another great question. I can't reveal all these, but another great question is called the punishment question. And this works on kids. It works on adults, it doesn't matter. And it's just a few words long. I would say, "What do you think should happen to the person that did this?" And you'll always get amazing answers. I'll give you my kids' example. >> [laughter] >> And this is from when they were uh 7 and 8, give or take. I came home from work in like my camo uh uniform. And we had a white living room rug, and there's like a little cardboard thing of chocolate milk just like sitting on its side, and there's like a little pool of chocolate milk on the carpet. And they're both playing the Xbox. The milk's like right there, a few feet away. I was like, "What What the hell? Guys?" They're like, "Oh, I don't know." And I was like, "Did you guys do this?" And they're like, "Nope." And I said, "All right, William, kitchen, Charlotte, dining room." [ __ ] prisoner Prisoner's dilemma. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> And I went over to um Charlotte. Yeah, it was Charlotte. And I said, "Charlotte, what do you think should happen to the person that did this?" And she goes, "Spankings, grounded, no more Xbox, can't play with the friends, no more sleepovers, can't eat in the living room anymore." It just goes on and on. And I was like, "Okay. All right." >> It's a kids' equivalent of capital punishment. Yeah, and I was like, "Damn." So, I went to William, and I said, "Will, what do you think should happen to the person that did this?" And he goes, "Uh maybe no more chocolate milk in the living room?" And there we go. I had I had my guy. Really quick. Have you ever seen those videos of when there's three dogs in the house, and one of them's ripped the [ __ ] out of a a couch or something, and two of them are just sort of looking like this, and the other one's got his face up against the wall? Yeah. [laughter] It is so good. I want to see dog interrogation videos, dude. Before we continue, most people in their 30s are still training hard. Their protein is dialed in. They sleep better than they did in their 20s. Discipline is not the issue, but recovery feels somewhat different. Strength gains take a little longer. The margin for error starts to shrink. And that is why I'm such a huge fan of Timeline. You see, mitochondria are the energy producers inside of your muscle cells. As they weaken with age, your ability to generate power and recover effectively changes, even if your habits stay strong. Mitopure from Timeline contains the only clinically validated form of Urolithin A used in human trials. It promotes mitophagy, which is your body's natural process for clearing out damaged mitochondria and renewing healthy ones. In studies, this supported mitochondrial function and muscle strength in older adults. It's not about pushing harder, it's about actually supporting the cellular machinery underneath your training. If you care about staying strong into your 30s, 40s, and 50s and beyond, this is foundational. Best of all, there's a 30-day money-back guarantee plus free shipping in the US and they ship internationally. And right now, you can get up to 20% off by going to the link in the description below or heading to timeline.com/modernwisdom and using the code modernwisdom at checkout. That's timeline.com/modernwisdom and modernwisdom at checkout. All right, so when it comes to building rapport, what are the techniques that elite negotiators use to create rapport quickly? Uh number one is making an admission that other people might be embarrassed about. Of some of having a fault of some kind or being insecure about something. Revealing something. Yeah. Uh just being something that's honest and true. So it's it resonates. What would be an example? Um It It would depend on the situation, but I might say something like, you know, >> Like bike stolen. Let's stay with that. With the stolen bike or the arms, whichever you want. Well, yeah. So you're talking about interrogation room rapport? Yeah. Oh, okay, that's different. Well, actually, stick with the normal rapport and then we'll go back to interrogation room. >> Yeah. So normal rapport, the admission might be um you know, I was I was so like in my own head. I was so afraid to be open around other people and I kind of like wore a mask for the like 10, 15 years of my life until I realized like it's it's not a big deal as I think it is. I'm not a big deal as I I I thought I was. And just saying something that other people really wouldn't and being honest about it is one of the one of the fastest ways to make trust start happening in a conversation because just people are so fake that that is somehow rare now. And and that's that's why I think podcasts where there's a genuine dude on there get more views than CNN. I think Rogan's got more views than CNN. Um but at the end of the day that's one of the fastest ways to do it. Uh another one of the fastest ways to do it in in this world is to have ignorance and fascination about something that you pride yourself in knowing a lot about. So like if you're an electrical engineer or something or you know, some you're maybe you wire podcast studios for a living. I'd be like, "God, that's that's always fascinated me with all that stuff. I don't think I could do that if I if I tried for a year. I'm just not inclined to do that, but it's still fascinating." That's one of the fastest ways to absolutely do that. And I think I do think rapport is a little bit overrated. I think it at the end of the day having contagious confidence to where that your confidence is high enough where the other person feels