confident is so much more effective and rapport is a byproduct of that. Mhm. So I always try to think like, "What is upstream of the thing that I want?" So if I want this as my desired end state what are all the things that needed to happen to make this just an automatic byproduct of what I want at at the end of the day? And one of the things that we found out over these years is it in an interrogation room or in some business setting, it doesn't actually matter is this level of confidence without any hierarchy or status. And the the biggest mistake that most people make is like if I say the word confidence, you're going to think more than who? Or higher than or less less confidence than. Uh and that hierarchy thinking is the fastest way to collapse any kind of skill in human beings because it pushes your awareness back behind your eyes. And I think when you're it if your awareness is in front of your eyes, people can really really feel that. And one metaphor I use to talk about this a lot is if I could go on a slight rant here. If you went into like we're in Austin, so there's probably a piano store somewhere. Like let's say you and I went into like a big ass piano store. And they've got this big grand piano there. And I go up to the piano and I smash down the middle key really hard, which is a C. It's going to send out this frequency through the entire store. And the C string on every other piano is going to start resonating like crazy. But it's only that string is going to vibrate. It's cuz it's tuned to that frequency, right? It's not going to vibrate any other strings except for C. The same thing works for tuning forks. So when I teach this stuff, it's that humans work almost exactly the same way. And one of the phrases that I teach is wherever you're speaking from is where you're going to speak to in other people. Where you speak from, you will speak to. So if we're in a conversation and I'm worried about hierarchy and status, I'm I'm plucking that same chord in in the person I'm speaking to. Is it that comes through. If I'm very confident and not insecure confidence, posturing uh kind of stuff. Um that's going to trigger confidence in the other person. So true confidence is really contagious. And the other confidence like where you can tell somebody's like read 15 of those LinkedIn articles like oh how to display CEO level confidence. Make solid eye contact, firm handshake, pat somebody on the arm, use their name, that kind of [ __ ] Um genuine confidence makes other people confident. Absolutely. And having enough confidence to share without ever viewing it in in the lens of hierarchy and status is the fastest way to like this whatever people call charisma. I think it's the fastest route. How do you think about appearing confident in a room? Can you rephrase that? What are the component parts of appearing confident to somebody? Well, what we're really doing like if you read one of those articles about like how confident people command a room and all that there's YouTube videos all all day long for that stuff. What I think they're made of is they're studying the symptoms of confidence. So, if I wrap you in a heating blanket and squirt water in your nose it does not give you COVID but it gives you a couple of symptoms, right? It it doesn't work in reverse all the time. So, what I think a lot of those people that train online is they're they see somebody who's genuinely confident and like oh what are they doing with their body? They're standing up straight. Uh they're speaking from their diaphragm. They're doing all of these things. They they use hand gestures like this. And then okay they're like okay let's make an Excel spreadsheet out of this. We're going to figure this [ __ ] out. Like all right, how how wide was the hand gesture? Like let me check it's 36 inches. Yeah, it was 36. So, then we train somebody to do this with their hands at 36 inches and they've got social anxiety and they're going to look like an idiot. It's not going to look congruent. It's It's to feel like whoa what's going on with this guy?" So, I think our culture is just obsessed with symptoms in general. Like, I want the Ferrari and the yacht and I don't want the bank account. I mean, I I want the symptoms of being wealthy. I want to show people that I have symptoms of wealth. But, if you if you look at the cause of confidence and I think my definition of confidence is way different than what you'll read online, but I think confidence is two elements. Number one, it is a willingness to receive social injury. I'm willing to be socially injured. Mhm. Number two, it is a generalized or or kind of a fuzzy belief that things are going to work out okay. Things are going to be okay. So, that social injury is typically why people can't feel confident. So, it's social injury or permission. I don't have permission to be like that here. If I make 50K a year, I'm not going to be confident walking into that Hermes Hermes whatever, Louis Vuitton luggage >> Not a shopping yeah. uh place. >> [laughter] >> A [ __ ] Gucci. Yeah. >> Yeah. Whatever. And the confidence comes from like permission. I don't have permission to be here. They can tell that I'm not from here. So, that's a role-based permission. But, if you're willing to receive social injury, you're totally fine with it. You have a generalized expectation that things are going to be okay. That is the first step to like really feeling confident and completely eliminating hierarchy and status from your mental thoughts forever, for the rest of your life. I think is the best way. Because it's not related to how you and somebody else interact. It's within you. Yeah, absolutely. I feel like this is going to go okay. And if social rejection does come my way, I'm fine with it. >> Yeah, it's a social injury and I'm that's okay. It might hurt. Mhm. I'm not saying I'm immune to any of it. It might hurt, but I'm okay. I'm happy to receive it. What do you make of Trump's behavior? How do you analyze him as a communicator? Uh he's fabulous communicator. I think he speaks at a I think a seventh grade level. A lot of good leaders speak at a low level. I think Obama was seventh or eighth grade level as well. But why do they do that? Because they will become more followable. Like exactly what we're talking about with authority and why we follow authority figures in in times of distress. And [snorts] I think he's a communicator that is obviously self-serving, self-fulfilling. And people call him a narcissist, that's which is a a diagnostic term for insurance companies, which is why that was invented. But uh you say whatever you want, but he is I think he's a great communicator. I think he gets the point across. He's just he's very idiosyncratic. He's weird. He does stuff that other people don't do. He breaks from a lot of the norms. Um but the communication is effective. Why is it effective though? Like how does he get so much attention? Well, one, he's kind of loud, but number two, it's novelty. We talked like novelty massively generates focus in human beings. And he's like a novelty master. He's a magician of novelty. So [gasps] he's the dude when it comes to that. And he is not the clearest communicator when it comes to like long vision and plans and stuff like that, but he says things that are followable. He has ideas that are very easy to follow. Man, Shane Gillis did a bit about him talking about Baghdadi when Baghdadi Have you seen it? It's one of the best videos on YouTube. But it it was just hilarious how simply it was absolutely simple how he communicated everything and it painted a picture in your head. Yeah. Uh and he did it in a way that didn't have to use a literary, flowery, poetry language and all of that, but it put a very clear picture in your head when he said that stuff. >> [snorts] >> It's interesting to think about how distinctive someone's voice is. And it's it's typical that a lot of people that have massive cultural influence have a distinctive If you can do an impression of someone, probably a good indication they've got quite a distinctive voice. Yeah. Can do an impression of Jordan Peterson quite easily. Yeah. >> Very distinctive voice. Can do an impression of Andrew Tate quite easily. Yeah. >> Very distinctive voice distinctive distinctive speaking cadence, repetition, this Russell Brand. Unnecessarily verbose and articulate. Yeah. >> Sort of meandering sentences. Listicle style. With Trump, sort of punchy thing. Uh superfluous restatement of the past point with embellishment and a little bit of bravado. Uh Obama, staccato. Very sharp. Yeah. Well, it's this. And then it's this. Yeah. Uh you know, just I I think that there's something to be said about a signature style. Sometimes, much of the time, maybe most of the time, the impressions that someone does about another person typically not that flattering. And not Most impressions aren't done to pay a compliment to someone. Yeah. But if someone can do an impression of you easily, you kind of own an area of verbal real estate. I have this. If you do that, like is that [ __ ] Kermit the Frog or Jordan Peterson? I can't work it out, but it's one of them. Yeah. I know it's one of them in there. And if you do a Trump, even a bad Trump impression, I know that's Trump. Actually, that's a good judge of how effective someone is as a rhetorician and of having a distinctive and signature style of speaking. How easily can someone do an impression of you? How far away from the way that you speak can I do an impression and the person I'm saying it to still understand the person that I'm doing it about? Yeah. >> You know what I mean? That's a cool rule of thumb. Yeah, and it's like the the novelty aspect and the the uniqueness of the voice. >> Distinctiveness is a huge part, I think. >> It's like the facial features are to a caricature artist. You know, like I all these individual weird unique things about the face and I'm going to exaggerate them for a caricature. I guess the same same kind of thing. And that voice is like a a good trademark. You If you have that unique voice, it's it's fantastic for a trademark. >> This is why I need to get 11 Labs to give me my voice back. Yeah. I'm on a campaign I'm on a crusade against 11 Labs. They stole They stole my voice. They stole my voice and now everyone's using it in ads. Uh >> Oh, I've got I have at least two AI channels of me popping up every day on YouTube. It's unbelievable with my name. Okay, that's different. That's slightly different. Uh Oh, they're using your voice likeness. Yeah. So [ __ ] They have a go-to British voice called Archer and this has been around for a while now. It's It's just trained on me. It's been trained on me. Uh it's got the same verbal ticks that I have from the specific area in the northeast of the UK that I'm from. It's got glottal stops in certain words. It's got the U sound words, yours. Bizarre little idiosyncrasies and phonetic idioms that I've got and it's [ __ ] me and I at some point in future I'm going to shout at someone. The CEO was in Qatar while I was there giving a speech. Oh, it's one of the one of the C-suite was there in Qatar and I got stopped talking to the dude the new CEO of Qatar Airways and I had this thing in front of me and it was connect with the guy that might be able to give me a discount on flights on Qatar Airways. I'll go and shout at the dude from 11 Labs and like uh uh I'll take the flights. It's like deal or no deal. >> [laughter] >> Oh, that's good. You want me to play it? Uh oh yeah, yeah, [ __ ] play it. Like watch watch this thing. Jay, you're a expert in communication. Oh, yeah. Listen to this. Massive searches, more than 200 million dollars spent and on March 8th, 2026, Ocean Infinity officially called off their last search. The CEO, Oliver Plunkett, essentially admitted what no one in the official investigation wanted to say. Maybe the plane simply isn't where we've been looking. But one man wasn't surprised. A journalist named Jeff Wise had been saying exactly Your th's. When you say the th, it's very unique. And it's got your th's. >> I've also got a slight lisp that I work against and it's got that too. So, whoever the AI is, they [ __ ] inherited my lisp. Uh Maybe it's good. We were talking to If I can get rid of that If it starts speaking better than me, that's when I've got an issue. It's me It's a race between the AI to refine itself and me and my speech coach Miles to see who can win first Who's going to get rid of the lisp first? [laughter] The real version of me or the copy? Um so, most people don't realize how much being dehydrated impacts their performance, which is why for the last 5 years, I've started pretty much every morning with Element. Element is a tasty electrolyte drink mix with everything that you need and nothing that you don't. This orange salt in a cold glass of water is like a sweet salty orangey nectar and I really tell the difference when I take it versus when I don't. It plays a critical role in reducing muscle cramps and fatigue, helps to optimize brain health, and regulate your appetite, while also curbing cravings. Best of all, they have a no questions asked refund policy with an unlimited duration, so you can buy it and try it for as long as you want, and if you don't like it for any reason, they'll just give you your money back. Plus, they offer free shipping in the US. Right now, you can get a free sample pack of Element's most popular flavors with your first purchase by going to the link in the description below or heading to drinklmnt.com/modernwisdom. That's drinklmnt.com / modernwisdom. You're talking there about building confidence, but I'm interested in what behaviors instantly reveal insecurity. You mentioned micro pauses as one that maybe not insecurity, but authority and trustworthiness, perhaps? Yeah. What are the behaviors that reveal insecurity? So, when it comes to insecurity, let's go mammalian and then human. So, the mammalian uh fear response or insecurity response is a reduced arm swing, incomplete movements. So, like I'm going to reach for this, I'm going to stop, and then kind of continue doing it, and then the movements aren't completed. You'll see a lot of that kind of stuff. >> Mhm. And you'll see reduced eye contact in a downward motion, and biggest of all, you're going to see the body moving or staying in areas that protect arteries. This means you'll see a lot less of this. You'll see the humerus kind of sit in a little bit closer to the body while they're talking, so that the brachial artery is protected. You'll see the shoulders a little bit up in in social situations, they'll stay a little higher, their head coming down a little bit uh protecting the carotid arteries. You'll see the arms in front of their body like this. Sometimes, this is called the fig leaf gesture, um, named by Allan Pease. Cuz it's covering the genitals. >> Covering, yeah. Uh, interesting. But it's also protecting the femoral arteries at the same time. And men are more likely to do that. Women are more likely to wrap a single arm around the abdomen like this while they're talking during, like if they're insecure. And this is protecting the uterus area. And there are studies on this. I've no idea who did the studies, but uh, this is originally written about by a guy named Desmond Morris, uh, who who just, I think, died in the last month or two. He was in his 90s, but he's like the first researcher who wrote a book about really observing humans as if they were animals. Like what How do their How do their body move? And uh, so the book was called Naked Ape. They're like us, and like the hairless monkey. And he studied He was like this savant at human behavior. But anyway, like when you're looking at the insecure behaviors, and you if you're looking at two people, what you really want to look at, especially if there's two people, is which person needs something more from the other person, and which person is reacting to the other person. The one thing Man, I'm hesitant to reveal this. The one thing that I teach, uh, a lot of these venture capital people, they'll they'll get pitched a lot. Uh, I've never been to one of the pitches. I've been on the pitching side quite a bit over the last 6 months, so I know what this feels like. >> The one thing that I teach them to look for is what's called lip compression. And we tend to do this at at times when we are we are withholding a little bit of information, or we're withholding an emotion. So like you imagine like if your friend started a new job and you're like, "Hey dude, how's how's the new job?" And he goes, "OH, IT'S GREAT." >> [laughter] >> SO THAT LIP COMPRESSION IS WITHHOLDING. So what I teach them to do is watch for the compression. The moment you see it, just rewind. What were they just talking about right before you see it? How's the financials in the business? >> Yeah. Says, "Oh, all the financials are great. We've we've projected out a good thing for the next couple of quarters." And you'll see that just that little lip compression is Is that lip compression I'm always interested in why that particular expression or feature is associated with that particular motive or leak? What is it? Is it It's It's our first way of withholding. It's our first way to hold in milk. Um like a tongue jut like after someone tells a lie, they like there's something call the tongue jut, that's very common, like this. This is our first no. It's a way to force a nipple out of the mouth. Uh and these are theories of Desmond Morris's as well. Um like this is our first way of withholding and keeping milk in the mouth and our first no is pushing our our tongue out. Or pursing our lips a little bit. What? That's sick. Is that not cool? Yeah. Is that not cool? It's kind of amazing. Sorry, I'm enthralled in the conversation. Is this not Are people more bored usually? Because this is boring. Okay, good. Yeah, I'm maybe I expect you to be bored. It's boring to me cuz I've been looking at it for like 10, 15 >> I'm British. You have to remember, you have to filter it through the British whatever this is. Yeah. Yeah. So that That's our first no. So tongue out of the mouth that tongue jut is our first no. There's a difference though between a tongue sticking out really quick and then a tongue licking the lips. Mhm. So a tongue licking the lips is is called a hygienic gesture. So it's made to make somebody more attractive. So, a hygienic gesture might be me sitting up a little straighter, like pulling my shirt down, like rubbing lint off, licking my lips. All those gestures that are made to look us more attractive, those you want to look for before someone starts talking. So, if they know a topic's coming up, like, all right, next we're going to get into financials, and then you see hygienic gestures before they start talking. So, typically you'll see hygienic gestures so that they're improving their appearance before the delivery of something that might be questionable. Mhm. You're trying to stack the deck in their favor. Yeah. And there's no behavior for deception. None. There's no behavior for deception. What does that mean? There is no behavior that's like, this is deception. None. Zero. What we're measuring with behavior is A, stress, and B, changes. Like, somebody says, oh, someone tapping their finger all the time, uh or tapping their finger means that they're stressed, and that means they're lying. That's That's total [ __ ] Absolute [ __ ] So, if I just tap my finger all day long, what you need to look for is when I stop. >> I was going to say, you're just a finger tapper. Yes. Yes. So, your first thing that you need to do, like, and people study body language a lot, and I could save you 15 years of studying body language. The only thing that you need to get good at is detecting change. And then learn a few little facial things, or a few little tricks, but you get really good at detecting a change. This is the same as doing a polygraph. They have to get a baseline first. >> Yeah. Yeah. And what you're doing is a visual equivalent. Is that a fair assessment? >> Yeah. Visual and verbal uh equivalent of all that. >> What's the cadence that this person speaks at? What's the volume that this person speaks at? >> Yeah. Or if they've been talking about their kid that's missing on the news, uh like, he's great, he's great, he's great. And then all of a sudden they say, how how do you think he's doing? And they start using past tense words all of a sudden to describe their child who they think or they're trying to say is currently alive. Uh and they're using past they shift from present tense to past tense. He is a good kid. He was a good kid. Like those like shifts in tense and language use are are really important. And when it comes to behavior there's none for deception. You got to look for change context. So like somebody says, "Oh, well his arms went into his torso." I'll be like, "Well, did it get colder? Did someone open a door and