There are two lies in the creator space right now that are messing people like you and me up. Number one is that views are the only thing that matter. If you want to make more money, you just need more views. The issue with that is that I have a friend of mine, very close friend of mine that has 2 million followers and barely makes enough money to quit his day job. So, that doesn't work. The other side, though, is that conversions are the only thing that matter and views don't matter at all. I fell for that one, too. and I provided immense amounts of value and focused on conversions and watched my earning per view drop by over half in a 12-month period. And so, in this video, I want to share with you the framework that I'm adopting that balances these two and helps you make money and make content. And then I'm going to share with you the split that I'm actively using right now that has doubled my earning per view or the amount of money I'm making per view I get on my content. The first thing I want to share with you in this video is the two traps. So, every content creator, whether they'll admit this to themselves or not, has two sides of their brain. On one side, they want to get famous and they don't really care about money. They just want to become a household name. They want to get super famous, make lots of content, get lots of views, lots of followers, and be a a global sensation, and they don't really care about the money side of things. And on the other side of their brain, they don't care about getting famous at all. They just want to make lots and lots of money. The issue is that both of those need to work together to create the real results that you want. You need a little bit of fame in order to make more money. And you need to be focused on making more money if you want to utilize that fame appropriately. And if you only focus on one side or the other, you end up in one of these two traps. The first is the influencer trap. This is the side where you are only focused on the fame side of your brain. And these people make lots of content, get lots of views, but make [ __ ] all money. Usually, they're very, very broke. And if they aren't broke, they're working excessively hard. They're what I call an industry prostitute where they're essentially selling their hard-earned attention, their hard-earned trust that they have with their audience to the highest bidder. The issue though that they fail to understand is the only reason a company is paying you $10,000 for a post is because they're making $100,000 off your hard-earned traffic. And so you're earning less than the company is paying you because if you weren't, they wouldn't be paying you. And so if you just had your own products, if you were providing your own service, not only would you make more money, but you'd keep more trust with your audience because when your audience is buying your product, you control the entire process. See, one of the things that terrifies me, and the reason why I don't do brand deals is because I control no part of the process once someone pays money. And so if someone sees me uh talk about, I don't know, the [ __ ] to-do list thing that I use and I talk about this in a video and I go, "This is great. It's really valuable. It helps me with my organization and get more done." And then I tell you to go buy it. And then I send you to their landing page. Let's say you get delivered a faulty product and it takes [ __ ] ages to be delivered and the service was horrific. And then when you get the faulty product, they refuse to give you a refund and you have a really terrible experience. who loses reputation as a result of that experience. The company does, of course, but so do I. And I have no control over that relationship that you've had with that company. And so, I am putting my name, my trust, and your time on the line to get a paycheck from a company that's making more money out of me than I'm making out of them. That to me feels like a bad [ __ ] trade. Not only are you earning such little money from the effort that you put into your content, the other side of this is your sense of accomplishment is completely [ __ ] You think that viewership is the only metric you care about. And so you're kind of just a sock puppet for the algorithm that just moves you in whatever direction it wants because viewership, aiming for viewership is actually not about helping human beings and being of service. It's about appeasing the [ __ ] robot that delivers your content to other people. It's not a bad thing. If you can learn how to get viewership, that's a very valuable skill. But the issue is you kind of just become whatever the algorithm wants you to be because your only metric that you care about is viewership. And by proxy, the moment that you try to promote your own product, because you're used to aiming for viewership, by default, you're going to get less views on something promoting your own product. And you're going to see that as a failure. Even though that video probably converts and makes you more money than the million views, you're going to see those 10,000 views as a complete failure. And that's a problem. I have a friend of mine, lovely [ __ ] guy and an incredible content creator, but his issue is he's always his entire career, the entire time that we've been making content together, he's always chased views and his brand is kind of just devolved into whatever meme is currently in trend and in vogue that he can get 30 million, 40 million views for. And he came to me recently with this video that he posted that had no association to him. It was literally like a a comedic m. And he came to me recently with a video that got him 45 million views. But the video was like a lady tripping over in the rain and losing her thong. Like it was funny. And when I say thong, I mean flipflop in Australia, not [ __ ] thong. Jesus. And so the issue with that video is that it has nothing to do with him, nothing to do with his brand, nothing to do with anything. And it got 45 million views. And he asked me like, "How do I monetize this?" And I had to tell him like, "Bro, I don't know. You can't. You cannot monetize it because it's 45 million views that thought it was funny, not thought you were interesting or thought you were valuable or thought you have something that you could sell them. What's going to get you the most possible views? Something where every human being on the planet can look at it and think that it's interesting, cool, or funny." and probably doesn't have any association to you. And so if you're constantly chasing views, you're including less and less of what makes you valuable in the content. And so a drone clip of the doommites is a piece of content that every single human being on the planet can look at and go, "Wow, that's cool." But that's not a piece of content that will make you any money. And so having that understanding that broad market appeal content is not necessarily even though it gets more views is not necessarily the thing or if at all the thing that's going to make you money. But to give the influencers their flowers, the other trap that is equally as bad is the educator trap. These are the people that reject viewership. They tell you that views don't matter and they're focused entirely on being valuable. But the issue is their content just kind of sucks and is boring. There might be people who find your content valuable. These people post incredible tutorials and they're incredibly useful. But the issue is no one's watching them going, "I want to learn from this person. I want to pay this person." They watch it and they think, "Wow, that was useful. On to the next." Not to mention that because they're so focused on conversions, their content kind of just becomes being sold to. You go to their Instagram account and it just feels like every day is another sales pitch and eventually it just becomes white noise. You watch these people and you consume your content, but you just zone out the sales pitch because it's so in your face every single day in their content because they're so focused on conversions. And so what eventually happens with these people is their content gets [ __ ] and [ __ ] and [ __ ] and [ __ ] they lose more of their audience and eventually gets to the point where they're gaining so little views that it doesn't matter how good conversions are, they just simply don't have enough traffic to run their business sustainably. I'm going to admit something. I fell into this trap pretty [ __ ] hard. So, I in 2024 started really trying to focus on conversions. It was my primary focus. I thought, you know what, content, I'm just doing this to make money. I'm only focused on building my business. And so my content strategy is just how can I get more conversions? And for a full year, all I really posted was like coaching clips, value, and carousels teaching. And my views were fine. And things were okay from the outside, but from the inside, my earnings per view just slowly started to dwindle. Not only that, but my viewership slowly started to dwindle. And what I began to realize is that people don't buy the coaching, they buy the coach. And unless they feel led and unless they like and relate to and attracted to you in some kind of way outside of the value you're providing, they're never going to buy. And so if all you're doing is educating, you essentially become the professor at the university. People show up to your class because they have to, but they don't want to be there. And there is a huge component of online business. There is a huge component of conversion that is people want to be there. There is a part of you who's in this video now and you want to be here. There will be a CTA at some point in this video that's going to try and convert you into time to build. But primarily I'm making this because I'm trying to give away as much value as I can. I'm not holding anything back and I'm trying to genuinely help you and you want to be here and I'm hoping that you know between my crudess that occasionally comes out and the [ __ ] Australian accent and some of my vibes that I've got going on that you enjoy being here as well. And so there is an element of both education and wanting to be here. And that is what allows me to convert really nicely from my content. And until you understand that you need to marry these two worlds, you're always going to kind of be held back. If you're focused on being an influencer and getting views, you're going to get lots of views and no money. If you're focused on being an educator, you're going to post really valuable content that's boring and no one wants to [ __ ] watch it and so no one's going to buy. If people think you're boring, they're not going to buy your program. The metaphor I wanted to share with you is that these worlds are kind of like the bodybuilder and the endurance junkie. The bodybuilder claims that strength training is all you ever need to do and cardio is a waste of time. You want to burn as few calories as possible. But the issue is that person can't walk up a flight of stairs without feeling winded and they're probably going to have a heart attack by 45. But then the endurance junkie claims that all you need to do is endurance train, run, ride, swim, and and nothing else matters. You don't need strength training. But the issue is that person like me is 65 kilos on their heavy days and couldn't lift their body weight if their life depended on it. The real answer is you need a good balance of both. And until you have a good balance of both, you're not a welladjusted, fit, and mobile human being. And creating content and running a business is the exact same. You need elements from the influencer. You need to know how to get viewership. You need to know how to make people know, like, and trust you. But then on the business side of things, you also need to build an audience that is specific. You can drive them to a product and they convert really nicely. And learning how to do both is crucially important. And in this video, I want to share with you a framework that can help you do both. The framework I want to share with you is what I call the content funnel. This is essentially the same as the business funnel, but only in your content. So, I'm sure you already know that your salesunnel in terms of your business is that you make content and then that eventually goes to leads and then those leads go to sales and those sales go to clients and you make money. That is a salesunnel. And this might be a big number into a smaller number into a tiny number into a tiny tiny number. That's a terrible way of visualizing it, but you know what I mean. And so this is your salesunnel in your business. But the content funnel is the funnel that exists within your content alone. And this has four steps. At the top of this funnel, you have the biggest section, which is what I call audience content. And this is the content you make with the pure intention of generating an audience, driving traffic to your business. The goal here that I want you to think about is total audience size. Good content for audience content is content that has a massive total audience size. And so what do you need to do to increase the total addressable market or the total audience size of this content? You decrease the specificity. You make it really broad. You don't make you the main character of this content. You make your audience and the idea the main character. You're just the mouthpiece. And so you're actually not trying to connect or relate to anyone with this idea yet or with this content yet. You're just trying to drive top offunnel traffic. And so the main thing here is I'm giving you permission to play to the algorithm a little bit. Use trends. Try to make stuff with the pure intention of generating traffic. Whenever I make content like this, I get between 500K and 1 million views. The next layer is inspiration content. And this is the content that now makes you the hero of the story. The goal here is to connect with you, the human being, but not you, the business owner, yet. You're not trying to connect people to your business. You're not trying to convert yet. All you're trying to do at the inspiration level is tell your origin story. Get people connected to you. Let people into your world. Help people understand you. One of the biggest things that people who succeed in this space have in common that you will notice once I say this is that they've done an excellent job at telling their origin story in their content. And so if I was to ask you if you're an Alexozi fan, you can probably within pretty good accuracy recount his origin story. But the only reason you can do that is not because it's public knowledge. It's not like there's a book out there that tells his origin story. It's not like articles that tell his origin story. The thing that he's done that helps you tell his origin story is that he shared it in content. He made specific pieces of content that shared his origin story. That is not a piece of content that converts people into his business. It's just a piece of content that creates him or positions him as the hero of the story that he's telling. And so the only difference between audience and inspiration content is for audience content, the idea is the hero. The audience is the hero. You're just the mouthpiece. But inspiration content, this is now your permission to make stuff about you. Tell your own stories. Share things from your own personal life. Share your own lifestyle. Get people interested in you, the person, before we get them interested in the business that you provide. Hey, by the way, if you have a particular skill set, you're a musician, you're a menstrual cycle coach, you're a personal trainer, you're a content creator, a photographer, videographer, whatever you have, if you have a particular skill set and you've always thought about turning that into a personal brand and an online business, this is kind of what I'm best in the world at. I run a coaching business called Time to Build where we help people like you take that expertise, take that experience, and build it into a personal brand and online business that makes you $10,000 a month. So, if that sounds like you, if that sounds like something you'd be interested in, I'd love for you to click the top line in the description. Have a read. There's no pressure. There's no sales calls or high pressure closing. This is entirely up to you. It's 200 bucks a month. You can cancel anytime, and we have a 90-day money back guarantee. So, if that sounds like something you'd be interested in, I'd love to have you join. And so a really good filter for this, although it's crude so forgive me, but if someone held a gun to your head and your life depended on a random one of your followers being able to tell your origin story with 100% accuracy, what content would you make? That's the content you need to make at the inspiration level. The content that helps people have a stronger understanding of you and your story and everything that helped you become who you are today. At this level, my content normally gets between 100K and 500K views. Whenever I make content talking about that on Instagram, it gets usually between 100 and 500,000 views. The next step on this funnel, and you're going to have to forgive my shitty drawing, is education content. This is where you share specific knowledge about your specific area of expertise. If you're a fitness influencer, this is where you share content on nutrition or training or the intricate knowledge that you've developed over the 10 years you've been doing this. The beautiful thing about this, right, is once you have audience and inspiration content down pat, all you need to do is teach. And so it takes all the pressure off education content. Cuz I'm sure a lot of you have this block or this mental block that you have whenever you go to teach something that you're worried about it also being entertaining. So you put a really good hook at the beginning of the video and then you're also worried about incorporating your own personality. So you're trying to tell your origin story in a way that weaves in with the value. Once you've got audience content and inspiration content down pat, guess what? You can just teach. You don't need a good hook cuz it doesn't matter. The goal is not audience for this content. The goal is to be of value, to be of service. And so you don't have to worry about all of the other things that make content bloated and painful and annoying to make. you can just focus on being of value, being of service to the people who choose to watch this content. And over time, a certain number of your audience content will trickle into your inspiration content. And so the people that watch the million view video might watch that and go, I wonder what this person's all about. And so they'll watch an inspiration piece and then a certain percentage of those people will be interested in your education content and it'll trickle down into each new layer. And for this content, I normally get between 10K and 100K views. These are the videos I make where I share something tactical, something really insightful or tactical or valuable from my audience. These are usually coaching calls that I have with clients where I'm actually helping them with something and then I clip that up and I post it on Instagram. And these videos predictably get honestly 100k views is generous. 10 to 30 to 40,000 views per video. And the final step on this list is CTA or product videos. These are the videos you make that are aimed at selling people into your program. The sole intention of this is sales. And again, because you've got this really robust funnel of audience content at the top, inspiration content, education content, and finally CTA and product, you have no ulterior motives. I have so many of my students ask me all the time. They're like, "What content should I make to sell my product? Like, how am I supposed to sell my product?" And the reason why they're asking that is because they have in their mind an idea of what content needs to be. Whether it's needing to have a really strong hook, needing to lead with value, needing to have a bridge, needing to incorporate their own personality. And so when they go to sell their product, they're have this bloated idea of what they need to do first before they earn the ability to sell. But if you've already done that in all your other content, in your sales content, you can just promote your product. You don't have to worry about being entertained enough that it gets views. You don't have to worry about including your origin story. You don't have to worry about leading with value. So many people have this idea that in order to sell in their content, they need to lead with value. You can just make a piece of content that sells your product that goes, "Hey, here's what I sell. Here's who it's for. Do you want to buy it?" And if you make content like that, it will convert better. Will it get views? No. But the goal isn't to get views at this level. And again, my videos at this level get 1k to 10k views on average. That is not a great amount of views for someone who has 460,000 followers on Instagram. But I don't care because the intention of that level is not viewership, it's conversions. Now, the reason why this idea is so powerful is because most people are not capable of holding these two things in their mind at once. Most people are not capable of posting a 500 to a million view video one day and then the very next day posting something that gets between 1 and 10,000 views because most people either associate one or the other with success. They either associate the million view video with success and so they cannot possibly post the video that gets one to 10,000 views because that's a failure. Or they only associate conversions with success and so they can't possibly post something that has no intention of getting conversions. The real balance or the real beauty is when you aim for both. When you have a really strong system that converts people from audience to inspiration to education down to product. And again, the beautiful thing here is when you really lean into this, you can really lean into it. And so most of you who are watching my videos and maybe you're a you've got a particular skill set, you teach that thing, you've got a product that sells that thing, and you've got a really nice funnel in your mind from content to sale. Right now, you probably feel a lot of pressure every single time you show up to make content that it needs to provide value and get people into your program. And so when I just told you, hey, you can actually just make content that has no intention of selling and has no association to your product. It just has the intention of getting people to watch your video. Maybe it's sharing a personal hobby that you have or sharing some weird insight or something you learned that has no relation to anything you do in your business. Or you can just make content that tells a personal story. You can get on camera and just tell a real story from your real life. And that's okay for content. You felt your shoulders drop when I said that. You're like, "Oh my god, I have so many ideas of what I could make." And that's because you're giving yourself the permission to make content at every level of the funnel. And so suddenly you can't judge the lack of conversions on an audience piece of content because it had no goal of getting conversions. But you also can't judge the lack of views on a CTA or product video because it never had any intention of getting an audience. And you know with predictable measure that you're never going to exceed the boundaries of what that piece of content gets. And so a value video by definition is not going to get lots of views because the total audience size of that content is small. You're taking every human being on the planet and then you're refining it down, by the way, to every English-speaking human being on the planet. Then you're refining it down to every English-speaking human being who has that niche interest. Then you're refining it down to every human being on the planet who speaks English, who has that niche interest, who is interested in learning about it. And so you've refined it down by four different filters before it got to that content. Then you're expecting it to get views. And so you need to be honest with yourself about how much or how much horsepower either the video has in terms of getting views or how much it has in terms of getting traffic to your business. And those two things are not the same goal. And until you do both of them in your content, you're always going to be stuck not succeeding at one or the other. All right, let's talk about the percentage split because everyone is going to ask me this question. What am I currently doing? My goal right now on Instagram, YouTube is slightly different because YouTube because it's long form, I can kind of just rant and talk and entertain and teach and do all of that at once. But on Instagram, my split is 40% of the time I'm aimed at making audience content. And by the way, this is on one to three pieces of content per day. I'm still posting a lot of content that's driving traffic to my business, but I'm posting a majority of the content in audience content. Then I'm going to do a 25% split of inspiration content. This is the content I'm posting with the sole intention of sharing a personal story, being vulnerable on camera, sharing an insight about my life or sharing my own lifestyle, getting you interested in who I am and what I'm about. Then 25% of my content is education content. This is the value I'm providing in that content. Now, the benefit of this is when you post educational pieces of content, you can include a CTA in that content and it works kind of in tandem with your CTA and product content to convert people, just not as well. When you have a CTA, but it's the secondary element of the video, it's never going to do as well as just direct selling. And then 10% of the time, the final 10% is my CTA slashprouct videos. And when I say CTA product videos, these are testimonials. These are student wins. These are videos or carousels where I'm getting on camera and going, "Hey, I sell time to build. It's $200 a month. You can cancel anytime. We help people like you build a personal brand and monetize that personal brand with a digitally delivered offer. If you're interested, click the link or comment word to buy." Those pieces of content are direct selling. There's no ulterior motive. There's no hook. I've got no interest in that content getting a lot of views because I'm only focused on converting people with that content. And so if you can split these nicely, what ends up happening is because a rising tide raises all ships, if you've got more views, even though the percentage of people that are viewing your product CTA videos is only a small percentage of the total pool because a rising tide raises all ships. more people are going to see that CTA if you're getting five million views a month versus two million views a month versus one million versus 100,000 views a month. And so all I'm really trying to say in this video is I want to give those of you who are scared of less views permission to get less views. But I also want to give those of you who are scared of not converting. You're scared of posting content that doesn't tightly connect to your business and your niche. I want to give you permission to not do that. I want to give you permission to once a day or once every other day make a piece of content that has no connection to anything that you teach or anything you do in your business and has the sole intention of getting more traffic, more eyeballs, more impressions on your stuff. Because if more people know who you are, if more people recognize your face, guess what's going to happen? Everything is going to increase in effectiveness. And so because more people know my [ __ ] ugly mug, when my profile picture pops up on Gmail, they're more likely to click. When my face pops up on a YouTube thumbnail in their recommended tab, they're more likely to click. And that multiplied out by weeks and months and years is the difference between tens of millions of dollars and tens of thousands of dollars. And so that's all I'm trying to get out of this video. You need to do both. You can't be the influencer only and you can't be the conversion junkie business operator only. You have to do both. Or at least if you want to build a big business, you have to do both. Now, your gut reaction is probably going to be, "Hold on, Tom. What do I do? What do I need to do for my own unique business? I'm a precious snowflake or a unique snowflake. My business has weird nuances and circumstances. What split should I use? Cuz I'm not going to use 40 2510." I want you to think about it like a diet. How much content you need to post in audience versus inspiration versus education versus CTA is kind of like when you're dieting. If you've been a bit of a fat [ __ ] over the weekend and you've drank a lot of beers and eaten a lot of pizza, well, maybe on Monday morning it's time for a salad and a steak and your content is exactly the same. If you've been a bit of a fat [ __ ] and you've only posted audience content to grow your audience, well, it might be time to sell some of those people. And if you've only been selling for a while, it might be time to provide value or be inspiring or get more people to be interested in you by posting audience content. You kind of need to learn to understand when you need to do certain things based on what you've already done. And so it's not a hard and fast rule. There's no science. There's no math equation. I can't look at your views and go, you need to do this, this, and this. It's more a feeling of what you've currently been doing up until this point. And so if you're only ever posting educational value content and it's boring and no one really watches and your comment section is pretty [ __ ] empty, it might be time to get people interested in you. But if you're only ever posting viral trends and no one even really knows who you are or what you can provide them, it might be time to start teaching