So, this is a product page for a clothing brand. One photo, title, price, clothing brand. One photo, title, price, add to cart, pretty much it. This page add to cart, pretty much it. This page converts at just under 1% and the converts at just under 1% and the founder who built it has no idea why. founder who built it has no idea why. Now, this is the same product, same Now, this is the same product, same photos, same price. Again, same product, photos, same price. Again, same product, just completely different page. I did just completely different page. I did not install a page builder. I did not not install a page builder. I did not hire a developer. I did not learn how to hire a developer. I did not learn how to write a single line of liquid myself. I write a single line of liquid myself. I basically describe what I wanted to basically describe what I wanted to Claude and Claude built that for me. And Claude and Claude built that for me. And in this video, I want to walk you in this video, I want to walk you through the whole thing, the tear down, through the whole thing, the tear down, the copy, the parts where this actually the copy, the parts where this actually goes live to your store without you goes live to your store without you breaking it or Claude potentially breaking it or Claude potentially breaking it, right? And this is one of breaking it, right? And this is one of those videos that I mean, you really those videos that I mean, you really want to watch the whole thing. There's want to watch the whole thing. There's so many little golden nuggets along the so many little golden nuggets along the way and it's going to help you way and it's going to help you tremendously to essentially have Claude tremendously to essentially have Claude as your coworker. Now, if you're new as your coworker. Now, if you're new here, my name is Kon. I run Bit Branding here, my name is Kon. I run Bit Branding with my business partner, Aaron Pearson with my business partner, Aaron Pearson out of Allen, Texas. We've been building out of Allen, Texas. We've been building and optimizing Shopify stores since and optimizing Shopify stores since 2015. And we only do one thing and that 2015. And we only do one thing and that is clothing brands and boutiques. Not is clothing brands and boutiques. Not restaurants, not software, not drop ship restaurants, not software, not drop ship gadgets. We do apparel. So when we tell gadgets. We do apparel. So when we tell you that you know your product page is you that you know your product page is probably leaving money on the table, probably leaving money on the table, that's from having looked at a lot of that's from having looked at a lot of product pages throughout these years. product pages throughout these years. And honestly, your product page is the And honestly, your product page is the highest leverage page on your entire highest leverage page on your entire store. It's not the homepage. Almost store. It's not the homepage. Almost nobody buys from the homepage. Your paid nobody buys from the homepage. Your paid traffic more than likely is landing on a traffic more than likely is landing on a product page. Your influencer links are product page. Your influencer links are landing on a product page. Google landing on a product page. Google Shopping, your email campaigns, almost Shopping, your email campaigns, almost everything is going to land on your everything is going to land on your product page, which means that if that product page, which means that if that page can't sell, everything upstream page can't sell, everything upstream from it is just wasted spend. You're not from it is just wasted spend. You're not paying to acquire customers. You're paying to acquire customers. You're paying to show people a page that paying to show people a page that doesn't answer their questions. And doesn't answer their questions. And until pretty recently, fixing meant until pretty recently, fixing meant three things. You pay a developer four three things. You pay a developer four figures, fight a page builder app that figures, fight a page builder app that adds a second and a half to your load adds a second and a half to your load time or accept whatever your theme time or accept whatever your theme actually shipped with and just hope that actually shipped with and just hope that that's a best practice. Now, there's a that's a best practice. Now, there's a fourth option and that is let's have fourth option and that is let's have Claude build it for us. Now, first Claude build it for us. Now, first thing, and this is I think where a lot thing, and this is I think where a lot of people waste their first attempt. I of people waste their first attempt. I don't want you to open up Claude and don't want you to open up Claude and type designing a product page. You're type designing a product page. You're going to get something very generic going to get something very generic because you gave it nothing to work because you gave it nothing to work with. The quality of what comes out is with. The quality of what comes out is entirely determined by what you put in. entirely determined by what you put in. So, let let's go over what you need to So, let let's go over what you need to put in. One, it's going to be your put in. One, it's going to be your current product page URL. So, you can current product page URL. So, you can actually see what you already have. I actually see what you already have. I want you to put three two to three want you to put three two to three competitor or I would say aspirational competitor or I would say aspirational product pages in there. Brands that product pages in there. Brands that you'd be proud. This is a good one. you'd be proud. This is a good one. Brands that you'd be proud to be Brands that you'd be proud to be confused with. Right? That's just a good confused with. Right? That's just a good way to put it. I want you to put real way to put it. I want you to put real product data. fabric composition, product data. fabric composition, weight, GSM, fit, body length, model weight, GSM, fit, body length, model height, size worn, care of, height, size worn, care of, instructions, country of origin, right? instructions, country of origin, right? All these little details matter. I want All these little details matter. I want you to also put in here your top five you to also put in here your top five customer questions. Could be from DMs, customer questions. Could be from DMs, it could be from your support email, it could be from your support email, anywhere that customers have reached out anywhere that customers have reached out to you to ask question. And if you have to you to ask question. And if you have any returns and you have returns and you any returns and you have returns and you track them, also give that context. track them, also give that context. Remember that every question that you Remember that every question that you get in your DMs or your chat inside of get in your DMs or your chat inside of your website is a question that your your website is a question that your product page essentially failed to product page essentially failed to answer. You you were being handed a answer. You you were being handed a conversion checklist for free almost conversion checklist for free almost every single day. And most brands just every single day. And most brands just answer the DM and they just move on and answer the DM and they just move on and they don't fix the root issue. So having they don't fix the root issue. So having all those things is again part of the all those things is again part of the context that you need to give it. Beyond context that you need to give it. Beyond that there's a little bit more before that there's a little bit more before you even get to this prompt. Claude you even get to this prompt. Claude needs to know who you are, what you needs to know who you are, what you sell, who buys it, your average order sell, who buys it, your average order value, your price point relative to the value, your price point relative to the market. You also want to give it market. You also want to give it constraints, right? If you're on constraints, right? If you're on Shopify, you're on a specific theme, you Shopify, you're on a specific theme, you have certain apps, you want to make sure have certain apps, you want to make sure that mobile first is something that gets that mobile first is something that gets paid attention to from cloud, the paid attention to from cloud, the ability for your team to be able to edit ability for your team to be able to edit whatever sections and things that you're whatever sections and things that you're building on this particular product page building on this particular product page template. And then this is like template. And then this is like something that also almost nobody does, something that also almost nobody does, but just add this at the end of your but just add this at the end of your prompt. at this one sentence is ask me prompt. at this one sentence is ask me questions before you build anything that questions before you build anything that one line it could change your entire one line it could change your entire output like instead of guessing at your output like instead of guessing at your brand it will just come back and ask brand it will just come back and ask what's your return policy do you have what's your return policy do you have any reviews yet you know what's your any reviews yet you know what's your bestselling size it can actually get bestselling size it can actually get even more context than what you're even more context than what you're giving it right now but if you answer giving it right now but if you answer those now before it starts designing and those now before it starts designing and doing all these things you'll actually doing all these things you'll actually get a way way better output in the end get a way way better output in the end now I think in terms of best practices I now I think in terms of best practices I want to give to my let's see what I have want to give to my let's see what I have here 11. So I have 11 different modules here 11. So I have 11 different modules or sections or blocks that just need to or sections or blocks that just need to be on this product page. So it's one of be on this product page. So it's one of those things where we'll go over each those things where we'll go over each one of these and you want to compare, one of these and you want to compare, right? Because obviously your theme will right? Because obviously your theme will have some of these things already built have some of these things already built in. So don't have Claude recreate the in. So don't have Claude recreate the wheel here. You're really just filling wheel here. You're really just filling in the gaps on what you don't have as in the gaps on what you don't have as part of your actual theme. So, let me go part of your actual theme. So, let me go over some of these modules, again, over some of these modules, again, sections, blocks that you need to have sections, blocks that you need to have on your product page that absolutely on your product page that absolutely make sense for clothing brands. make sense for clothing brands. &gt;&gt; All right, so this is the module stack &gt;&gt; All right, so this is the module stack for apparel. This is one of those things for apparel. This is one of those things where we're trying to be generous and where we're trying to be generous and general um with this stack because at general um with this stack because at the end of the day, there may be things the end of the day, there may be things here that may not match exactly uh where here that may not match exactly uh where you're at with your business or the type you're at with your business or the type of business that you have. So again, of business that you have. So again, every clothing brand is slightly every clothing brand is slightly different, but these 11 modules should different, but these 11 modules should cover majority of clothing brands. So cover majority of clothing brands. So first up, a gallery mobile first five to first up, a gallery mobile first five to seven images. Um, and I have here just seven images. Um, and I have here just like a plain uh the objection that it like a plain uh the objection that it essentially it kills. Uh, really what essentially it kills. Uh, really what we're trying to showcase is what does it we're trying to showcase is what does it actually look like on a body? Um, we actually look like on a body? Um, we leading with a body shot. We still want leading with a body shot. We still want flatlays, but basically not leading with flatlays, but basically not leading with a flatlay. um title, price, oneline a flatlay. um title, price, oneline value statement. It's this is basically value statement. It's this is basically what this is and is it for me. Um by the what this is and is it for me. Um by the way, this oneline value statement, we're way, this oneline value statement, we're going to be showing you how that how going to be showing you how that how that looks and how that works and why that looks and how that works and why it's so so important. Uh variant it's so so important. Uh variant selector, real color swatches, uh does selector, real color swatches, uh does it come in the color I want? Um usually it come in the color I want? Um usually a drop down hides that range. So we want a drop down hides that range. So we want to actually have buttons in here and to actually have buttons in here and pills, uh is usually what Shopify calls pills, uh is usually what Shopify calls it. Um no drop downs. uh size selector it. Um no drop downs. uh size selector plus inline size guidance. You know, plus inline size guidance. You know, will this fit me? Is uh is this your will this fit me? Is uh is this your number one? Basically, this is your number one? Basically, this is your number one return driver, right? Like if number one return driver, right? Like if the the product actually fits the the the product actually fits the customer. This is probably the most customer. This is probably the most important question that they're asking. important question that they're asking. Um add toart [clears throat] sticky on Um add toart [clears throat] sticky on mobile obviously removing the scroll mobile obviously removing the scroll back up uh friction entirely by having back up uh friction entirely by having that add toart button kind of follow you that add toart button kind of follow you around. Um, and I would say sticky even around. Um, and I would say sticky even on desktop um, may be a good idea and I on desktop um, may be a good idea and I think we'll be able to to achieve that think we'll be able to to achieve that on this video. Uh, we have a trust row on this video. Uh, we have a trust row directly under the button, shipping directly under the button, shipping cost, return window, secure checkout at cost, return window, secure checkout at the moment of decision. Uh, we have a the moment of decision. Uh, we have a fit and fabric block. Um, is this fit and fabric block. Um, is this quality worth the price? Essentially, quality worth the price? Essentially, you know, um, specs actually do this. you know, um, specs actually do this. Adjectives usually don't. Um, styling or Adjectives usually don't. Um, styling or lifestyle break, you know, how do I wear lifestyle break, you know, how do I wear it? um what does it go with? Um where it? um what does it go with? Um where can I go to uh wear something like this? can I go to uh wear something like this? These are all important things. And These are all important things. And again, depending on your customer, uh again, depending on your customer, uh this will change a little bit. Uh this will change a little bit. Uh reviews with customer photos with reviews with customer photos with customer photos. Uh you know, do people customer photos. Uh you know, do people like me actually buy this? This is like me actually buy this? This is basically the objection um that they're basically the objection um that they're trying to they're trying to determine. trying to they're trying to determine. So, a lot of times just simple um text So, a lot of times just simple um text reviews may not do the full job. Having reviews may not do the full job. Having actual photo reviews would be uh the actual photo reviews would be uh the ideal thing to do. Uh objection FAQ. ideal thing to do. Uh objection FAQ. This is like something that almost This is like something that almost nobody uh does on their u on their nobody uh does on their u on their product pages. Uh basically five things product pages. Uh basically five things that people have DM'd you about um or that people have DM'd you about um or you know if you have a if you have a you know if you have a if you have a chat inside of your um on your website, chat inside of your um on your website, people keep asking you some of the same people keep asking you some of the same questions. Um this is just absolutely questions. Um this is just absolutely huge to have on your on your product huge to have on your on your product page. and then a cross-ell built for uh page. and then a cross-ell built for uh essentially completing the outfit, essentially completing the outfit, right? That's the the most common thing. right? That's the the most common thing. Obviously, there are, you know, places Obviously, there are, you know, places like u actually like true classic where like u actually like true classic where they don't necessarily do a complete the they don't necessarily do a complete the outfit, but um or actually sometimes outfit, but um or actually sometimes they do because now they have other they do because now they have other products, but a lot of times is really products, but a lot of times is really the the quantity, right? Like you they the the quantity, right? Like you they they're getting a better deal, right, if they're getting a better deal, right, if you do a more quantity. So, it makes you do a more quantity. So, it makes sense, right, for this clothing brand to sense, right, for this clothing brand to do more of a quantity break. uh versus do more of a quantity break. uh versus for you like more than likely you'll for you like more than likely you'll probably fall into this category of probably fall into this category of upsell or cross-ell where you're just upsell or cross-ell where you're just yeah giving a complimentary item that yeah giving a complimentary item that can complete that outfit. All right, can complete that outfit. All right, there we have it. 11 modules that we're there we have it. 11 modules that we're going to be taking care of. There will going to be taking care of. There will actually be just a few more little actually be just a few more little details that we'll talk about in the details that we'll talk about in the next section. All right, so now you have next section. All right, so now you have the blueprint on what needs to go on the blueprint on what needs to go on this page, but part of the complete this page, but part of the complete package here is that we need to put package here is that we need to put words, right? And this is where again AI words, right? And this is where again AI written product pages usually it could written product pages usually it could go to die here. You know you could you go to die here. You know you could you could have something output-wise pretty could have something output-wise pretty bad. And you probably read this probably bad. And you probably read this probably a few times if you've prompted any AI a few times if you've prompted any AI platforms like elevate your everyday platforms like elevate your everyday crafted for those who dare. Effortless crafted for those who dare. Effortless staple piece right it's not that writing staple piece right it's not that writing exactly it's just wallpaper right it's exactly it's just wallpaper right it's just it could be describing any garment just it could be describing any garment being made by anyone which means it's being made by anyone which means it's describing essentially nothing. So, part describing essentially nothing. So, part of what I think will make this product of what I think will make this product page essentially next level is the page essentially next level is the actual copy. So, let's go over what to actual copy. So, let's go over what to do with the prompting to get the copy to do with the prompting to get the copy to be pristine for this product page. All be pristine for this product page. All right, these are the five fixes that you right, these are the five fixes that you need to do in order for this product need to do in order for this product page to be truly exceptional. Right? page to be truly exceptional. Right? We're not just talking about building We're not just talking about building sections and blocks. we're actually sections and blocks. we're actually talking about the actual product in talking about the actual product in itself and how do we how do we make that itself and how do we how do we make that better. So um in terms of the copy and better. So um in terms of the copy and the copy that cloud will have to the copy that cloud will have to generate for you. Um you you want it to generate for you. Um you you want it to be more than just the product specs that be more than just the product specs that come directly from the manufacturer. Um come directly from the manufacturer. Um you want something that's truly unique you want something that's truly unique for you and your brand. So the number for you and your brand. So the number one fix really is going to be uh feed it one fix really is going to be uh feed it your customer not your product. So uh your customer not your product. So uh Claudus actually cannot invent your Claudus actually cannot invent your buyer, right? it doesn't know that. So, buyer, right? it doesn't know that. So, if all you give it is garment, all you if all you give it is garment, all you get back is going to be garment get back is going to be garment language. Um, if you give it the person, language. Um, if you give it the person, you know, who they are, what they're you know, who they are, what they're wearing it for, what they're quietly wearing it for, what they're quietly worried about when they hover over the worried about when they hover over the button. Um, if you can't describe that button. Um, if you can't describe that person in a paragraph, that's your real person in a paragraph, that's your real problem. And no amount of prompting is problem. And no amount of prompting is going to fix that. So, super important. going to fix that. So, super important. Fix number two is going to be the Fix number two is going to be the specificity rule. Um, you want to add specificity rule. Um, you want to add this constraint to your prompt. this constraint to your prompt. basically no adjective that could basically no adjective that could describe any other garment and every describe any other garment and every claim has to be tied to a spec. So watch claim has to be tied to a spec. So watch what happens if you do premium what happens if you do premium heavyweight tea uh that becomes 340 gsm heavyweight tea uh that becomes 340 gsm cotton boxy fit 26 inch body length on a cotton boxy fit 26 inch body length on a medium right it holds that shape after medium right it holds that shape after 20 washes uh you compare that to again 20 washes uh you compare that to again premium heavyweight tea um one of those premium heavyweight tea um one of those is a claim while the other one actually is a claim while the other one actually is providing evidence which is what we is providing evidence which is what we want. Uh, number three, uh, write the want. Uh, number three, uh, write the FAQ before the description. Everybody FAQ before the description. Everybody writes the I think the pretty writes the I think the pretty description first, right? Bolton FAQ at description first, right? Bolton FAQ at the end of the page. Um, I would say the end of the page. Um, I would say flip it. Um, have Claude draft the flip it. Um, have Claude draft the objection FAQ first. Uh, use the DMs. objection FAQ first. Uh, use the DMs. Uh, write the description around what's Uh, write the description around what's essentially left unanswered. Uh, your essentially left unanswered. Uh, your description gets shorter and better description gets shorter and better because it stops trying to do every because it stops trying to do every single job. um FAQ and some of the other single job. um FAQ and some of the other sections that it will create um will sections that it will create um will become a little bit more digestible. So, become a little bit more digestible. So, we'll kind of see what that uh what that we'll kind of see what that uh what that looks like here in a second. Number four looks like here in a second. Number four is extract your voice uh before you use is extract your voice uh before you use it. So, really what I want you to do is it. So, really what I want you to do is if you've already written anything um if you've already written anything um we're talking about I don't know uh we're talking about I don't know uh email, social media copy, uh maybe email, social media copy, uh maybe you've already written some some about you've already written some some about page content for your story. I want you page content for your story. I want you to paste three to five things that to paste three to five things that you've already written actually sound you've already written actually sound like your brand. You know, again, like your brand. You know, again, captions, email, an about page, uh a captions, email, an about page, uh a text message, whatever. Um just want text message, whatever. Um just want anything that you've actually personally anything that you've actually personally written. Um so we can get a little bit written. Um so we can get a little bit of of the tone and the voice uh of the of of the tone and the voice uh of the brand. Um again, this is something that brand. Um again, this is something that I would highly highly suggest to at I would highly highly suggest to at least have a little bit of your DNA uh least have a little bit of your DNA uh into this so you don't completely lose into this so you don't completely lose it um with all this AI prompting. And it um with all this AI prompting. And fix number five [clears throat] is fix number five [clears throat] is treating size and fit as a conversion treating size and fit as a conversion feature for a clothing brand. I think feature for a clothing brand. I think returns uh is usually a silent margin returns uh is usually a silent margin killer. Uh a page that gets someone's killer. Uh a page that gets someone's into the right size the first time is into the right size the first time is worth more than uh a page that gets you worth more than uh a page that gets you uh one extra order. Um so the the fit uh one extra order. Um so the the fit block is not it's not going to be block is not it's not going to be failure content. We need model failure content. We need model information. Um we need measurements of information. Um we need measurements of the garment itself. um how it runs the garment itself. um how it runs relative to to the sizes people already relative to to the sizes people already own. Um you know, what do they do if if own. Um you know, what do they do if if they're kind of like between sizes? Um they're kind of like between sizes? Um all that information is going to be um all that information is going to be um super super powerful. Now, um for all super super powerful. Now, um for all these fixes, um I've basically just these fixes, um I've basically just started war vomiting in here. Um started war vomiting in here. Um information about about the brand. Um information about about the brand. Um and honestly, like this right here, you and honestly, like this right here, you don't even have to do anything like don't even have to do anything like that. Um but this kind of gives you that. Um but this kind of gives you again just a good idea. So, we're using again just a good idea. So, we're using our Desco um our Desco, it's a dummy our Desco um our Desco, it's a dummy brand. We call it the DB Supply Company. brand. We call it the DB Supply Company. Um again, completely fictional just in Um again, completely fictional just in reverse of the of this video. Um but we reverse of the of this video. Um but we have information about the brand. Uh have information about the brand. Uh this information actually like again we this information actually like again we just kind of made it up, but if you have just kind of made it up, but if you have Shopify connected officially through Shopify connected officially through Claude, Claude will be able to kind of Claude, Claude will be able to kind of read through and see u some of the read through and see u some of the information and some of the financials information and some of the financials and all that kind of stuff. Not super and all that kind of stuff. Not super important, but just nice to have in important, but just nice to have in here. U so a little bit about the brand. here. U so a little bit about the brand. um a little bit of the customer. Marcus um a little bit of the customer. Marcus 27, lives in East Dallas. Um you know, 27, lives in East Dallas. Um you know, what he actually wants to look like what he actually wants to look like we're, you know, he's from here, not we're, you know, he's from here, not like he visited. Um what he's worried like he visited. Um what he's worried about before he buys, whether oversized about before he buys, whether oversized means oversized or means he needs to means oversized or means he needs to size up anyway. Um so these are all just size up anyway. Um so these are all just things that we've kind of narrowed down things that we've kind of narrowed down about our customer. Um where he actually about our customer. Um where he actually finds us, usually Instagram reels, maybe finds us, usually Instagram reels, maybe a friend is wearing one, maybe a friend is wearing one, maybe occasional Google searching for, you occasional Google searching for, you know, deep shirt. Again, just all good know, deep shirt. Again, just all good context. uh for Claw to have u product context. uh for Claw to have u product spec sheet um again straight from the spec sheet um again straight from the manufacturer essentially right um you manufacturer essentially right um you know price um you know sizes uh the know price um you know sizes uh the graphic tee just kind of more of a graphic tee just kind of more of a description of the uh product uh fabric description of the uh product uh fabric and construction if we have any and construction if we have any information like that from the information like that from the manufacturer um absolutely um any uh manufacturer um absolutely um any uh size charts uh because Claude will use size charts uh because Claude will use this and input it if you have any photos this and input it if you have any photos with models already just kind of give it with models already just kind of give it the information um about the model, the information um about the model, weight, uh what size they're actually weight, uh what size they're actually wearing. Uh if you have any care care wearing. Uh if you have any care care information again from the manufacturer, information again from the manufacturer, uh this would be a really good thing to uh this would be a really good thing to do. If you don't have this care do. If you don't have this care information, um Google it or have Claude information, um Google it or have Claude make it for you depending on uh what it make it for you depending on uh what it sees in terms of the fabric and sees in terms of the fabric and construction of that particular garment. construction of that particular garment. Um we also have the top five DM Um we also have the top five DM questions. Again, a little bit questions. Again, a little bit fictional, right? And for you, I mean, fictional, right? And for you, I mean, you may not even have um five, like it you may not even have um five, like it may be three or two. uh that's perfectly may be three or two. uh that's perfectly fine, but just giving it something where fine, but just giving it something where you know customers have actually said you know customers have actually said about maybe some of your products or about maybe some of your products or things that you're concerned about uh things that you're concerned about uh your customers not being able to uh do. your customers not being able to uh do. And then we also have in here like a And then we also have in here like a return reason. So again, all fictional return reason. So again, all fictional data, but if you do have anything like data, but if you do have anything like this, this this really good information this, this this really good information for Claude to have in order to kill for Claude to have in order to kill these objections before they even happen these objections before they even happen on that on that product page. Um and on that on that product page. Um and then here we have our voice samples. So, then here we have our voice samples. So, uh, just a couple Instagram captions, uh, just a couple Instagram captions, email subject, about page, excerpt. Um, email subject, about page, excerpt. Um, again, just making sure that, uh, Claude again, just making sure that, uh, Claude knows a little bit of how we write and knows a little bit of how we write and and what we write there. Um, we also and what we write there. Um, we also input in here, uh, just a couple of input in here, uh, just a couple of reference, uh, product pages to reference, uh, product pages to represent Brits and Wood, Quarter NYC, represent Brits and Wood, Quarter NYC, uh, and why it's a a reference just so uh, and why it's a a reference just so Claude can kind of give us a better, you Claude can kind of give us a better, you know, tear down of, um, what they look. know, tear down of, um, what they look. This is one of those things where um This is one of those things where um yeah, if you have examples um and and yeah, if you have examples um and and references that you want to give cloud, references that you want to give cloud, it it can make something way better uh it it can make something way better uh than it was before. So, we have our um than it was before. So, we have our um our paste ready, I would say, context our paste ready, I would say, context blocks down here. So, we're going to blocks down here. So, we're going to copy this and put it into cloud. Um, and copy this and put it into cloud. Um, and for it to give us uh really the first for it to give us uh really the first step is really just going to be uh we're step is really just going to be uh we're going to give it all this context and going to give it all this context and we're going to get a good understanding we're going to get a good understanding of the sections that we're going to see of the sections that we're going to see on our new product page before we even on our new product page before we even actually move them over to our actual actually move them over to our actual theme. Now, let me pause here for one theme. Now, let me pause here for one thing and then we get into actually thing and then we get into actually shipping this to your live website. If shipping this to your live website. If you'd rather have someone look at your you'd rather have someone look at your store with you than working through all store with you than working through all of this on your own, we do have a free of this on your own, we do have a free 45 minute strategy call where we can 45 minute strategy call where we can actually pull up your actual product actually pull up your actual product page on a real screen together and we page on a real screen together and we can give you essentially the help that can give you essentially the help that you need. So if you're interested in you need. So if you're interested in that, you can click on the link in the that, you can click on the link in the description down below. All right, let's description down below. All right, let's put this on your store. Again, none of put this on your store. Again, none of this process here requires you to know this process here requires you to know any liquid or any custom code. What any liquid or any custom code. What we're going to do is we're going to we're going to do is we're going to properly connect Claude with your properly connect Claude with your Shopify store. create the prompt and Shopify store. create the prompt and then let Claude do its thing and install then let Claude do its thing and install this on your draft theme. this on your draft theme. &gt;&gt; All right. So, for the purpose of this &gt;&gt; All right. So, for the purpose of this exercise, um we're going to um I don't exercise, um we're going to um I don't know if you remember, we had the the know if you remember, we had the the whole dossier here. Uh so, we're going whole dossier here. Uh so, we're going to actually copy this uh the prompt that to actually copy this uh the prompt that we have here at the bottom. We're going we have here at the bottom. We're going to paste it in. I'm going to show you a to paste it in. I'm going to show you a little bit of uh information there. But little bit of uh information there. But before any of that, I do want to show before any of that, I do want to show you uh the example that we're going. you uh the example that we're going. We're using this Run Deep LM t-shirt. We're using this Run Deep LM t-shirt. Again, fake brand, fake t-shirt, uh fake Again, fake brand, fake t-shirt, uh fake design. Um we already have like a little design. Um we already have like a little bit of a of a description and some bit of a of a description and some details maybe from the manufacturer. We details maybe from the manufacturer. We have a couple of images, uh three model have a couple of images, uh three model images here, just two flatlays. Um images here, just two flatlays. Um again, categories in place. Uh color again, categories in place. Uh color size variants already in place. We do size variants already in place. We do have a image attached to each of the have a image attached to each of the variants. Uh the color variants, super variants. Uh the color variants, super important uh if you have multiple color important uh if you have multiple color variations. But as you can see, there's variations. But as you can see, there's no uh these product meta fields here. no uh these product meta fields here. So, these additional fields um are just So, these additional fields um are just um extra that come with the actual demo um extra that come with the actual demo theme or or account that we have here. theme or or account that we have here. Um but it's going to be pretty uh pretty Um but it's going to be pretty uh pretty straightforward. Um no, not not a whole straightforward. Um no, not not a whole lot of bells and whistles, but just a lot of bells and whistles, but just a pretty good foundation, I would say. Um pretty good foundation, I would say. Um next, um I want to show you the next, um I want to show you the um not this one. it will be more so what we're technically starting more so what we're technically starting with um which is going to be yeah it's with um which is going to be yeah it's going to be this right here. So this is going to be this right here. So this is essentially the the template almost like essentially the the template almost like out the gate for the horizon theme. So out the gate for the horizon theme. So every change that we're going to make every change that we're going to make today is going to be on the horizon today is going to be on the horizon theme. So I just want to show you kind theme. So I just want to show you kind of like where we're starting. So, we of like where we're starting. So, we have a grid uh view for the photos. Uh have a grid uh view for the photos. Uh we just have title, pricing, uh drop we just have title, pricing, uh drop downs for these. We have two call to downs for these. We have two call to action buttons, uh description action buttons, uh description underneath, and you may also like uh and underneath, and you may also like uh and again, snowboards part of the the demo. again, snowboards part of the the demo. Uh not necessarily related to kind of Uh not necessarily related to kind of this example brand that we're trying to this example brand that we're trying to do, but yeah, this is just yeah, very do, but yeah, this is just yeah, very burbones, very basic. Uh missing a lot burbones, very basic. Uh missing a lot of the elements that that we kind of of the elements that that we kind of talked about. So, what we're going to do talked about. So, what we're going to do is really we're going to prompt Claude is really we're going to prompt Claude to get us there to get this product page to get us there to get this product page uh fully transformed into something that uh fully transformed into something that um has all the objection killers, half um has all the objection killers, half all the information that we need. And all the information that we need. And again, like we've we've done a little again, like we've we've done a little bit of work, right? Right. We're not bit of work, right? Right. We're not necessarily starting from scratch necessarily starting from scratch scratch. Like we we have determined scratch. Like we we have determined like, you know, our our brand fonts. We like, you know, our our brand fonts. We have some colors already in place uh on have some colors already in place uh on things that we like. Uh the sizing we've things that we like. Uh the sizing we've kind of, you know, manipulated a little kind of, you know, manipulated a little bit on the on the titles and things like bit on the on the titles and things like that. So, we've done a little bit of that. So, we've done a little bit of work. I would say the the bare minimum work. I would say the the bare minimum that I implore you to go and do, which a that I implore you to go and do, which a lot of this stuff really it's under your lot of this stuff really it's under your theme settings. It's going to be under theme settings. It's going to be under the the typography. It's going to be the the typography. It's going to be under the the color palette. It's going under the the color palette. It's going to be under, you know, your logo. Make to be under, you know, your logo. Make sure that you're adding all those uh all sure that you're adding all those uh all those essentials. From there, um what those essentials. From there, um what we're going to try to do is yeah, we're going to try to do is yeah, completely transform this with clut completely transform this with clut code. Now, one of the the first things code. Now, one of the the first things um I have here is the uh the actual um I have here is the uh the actual prompt that we're able to spit out from prompt that we're able to spit out from the original uh dossier that we created. the original uh dossier that we created. So uh again for you like this it may not So uh again for you like this it may not look disorganized but you definitely look disorganized but you definitely want to you know have the one two three want to you know have the one two three four uh of all the information that it's four uh of all the information that it's relevant um and give it context right um relevant um and give it context right um and even this is like a I would say a and even this is like a I would say a simpler prompt um compared to all the simpler prompt um compared to all the information that we we have here so it's information that we we have here so it's even a little bit of a summarized even a little bit of a summarized version um of it but essentially what version um of it but essentially what we're asking cloud right now is we we we're asking cloud right now is we we don't want to like we're letting them don't want to like we're letting them know like we are on Shopify but we don't know like we are on Shopify but we don't want to um we don't want to necessarily want to um we don't want to necessarily do this on Shopify right now. We just do this on Shopify right now. We just want a uh sort of like a little want a uh sort of like a little presentation, right? A module stack so presentation, right? A module stack so that we can kind of see it before it that we can kind of see it before it actually goes in. So, it's more like a actually goes in. So, it's more like a like a wireframe. Uh it doesn't even like a wireframe. Uh it doesn't even look like a wireframe. It's more of a uh look like a wireframe. It's more of a uh yeah, like just a better organized yeah, like just a better organized documentation. Um and then at the end of documentation. Um and then at the end of this prompt, um ask me questions before this prompt, um ask me questions before you build anything. Like if you get you build anything. Like if you get anything from this video, it's going to anything from this video, it's going to be the fact that this is something that be the fact that this is something that you should probably add to almost every you should probably add to almost every prompt that you do, especially any prompt that you do, especially any initial conversation, initial prompt uh initial conversation, initial prompt uh that you're doing because this will that you're doing because this will uncover a lot of things. If you don't do uncover a lot of things. If you don't do this, Claude will make assumptions on this, Claude will make assumptions on the information that it just doesn't the information that it just doesn't know. And it won't tell you that it made know. And it won't tell you that it made those assumptions about your brand or those assumptions about your brand or about your product. Uh it will just make about your product. Uh it will just make those decisions and not let you know. those decisions and not let you know. So, um, in here, that's exactly what it So, um, in here, that's exactly what it did. It just went into eight different did. It just went into eight different questions. Um, you know, do you know why questions. Um, you know, do you know why your returns are happening? Uh, do you your returns are happening? Uh, do you have a real size chart? Because I guess, have a real size chart? Because I guess, yeah, from here we didn't add an actual yeah, from here we didn't add an actual the actual size chart, which we did have the actual size chart, which we did have it here, uh, in the in the original it here, uh, in the in the original text, but we'll give it to that in the text, but we'll give it to that in the answer. Um, does this product or brand answer. Um, does this product or brand have existing reviews, you know, star have existing reviews, you know, star ratings, UGC? Uh, really a lot of the ratings, UGC? Uh, really a lot of the same questions that I would have if I if same questions that I would have if I if I was actually building this uh this I was actually building this uh this product page. So once you go through all product page. So once you go through all these questions, we just kind of very these questions, we just kind of very simply answered them in a very in a 1, simply answered them in a very in a 1, two, three, four, five, you know, six, two, three, four, five, you know, six, seven, eight format. Uh very simple and seven, eight format. Uh very simple and it was able to give us the the it was able to give us the the wireframe. So um the wireframe again, it wireframe. So um the wireframe again, it doesn't look necessarily like like you doesn't look necessarily like like you know uh Shopify or anything like that, know uh Shopify or anything like that, but it gives us an idea of kind of like but it gives us an idea of kind of like the stack of the things that that will the stack of the things that that will probably be in place here. Um so we have probably be in place here. Um so we have the the the gallery. So, it's it's the the the gallery. So, it's it's basically letting us know how it's going basically letting us know how it's going to uh work on the gallery. The title, to uh work on the gallery. The title, price, buy box. It's going to tell us price, buy box. It's going to tell us exactly um you know, the information exactly um you know, the information that's relevant to that section, fit and that's relevant to that section, fit and sizing. Um now, it has the actual um the sizing. Um now, it has the actual um the actual measurements in here. Um craft actual measurements in here. Um craft and construction, right? Uh local and construction, right? Uh local authenticity, making sure that there's authenticity, making sure that there's some short line naming the fact that some short line naming the fact that this is printed in deep element, not this is printed in deep element, not just a generic, you know, city graphic. just a generic, you know, city graphic. um reviews. It's actually going to use a um reviews. It's actually going to use a judge me widget. Um and it's going to, judge me widget. Um and it's going to, you know, put it into uh into the you know, put it into uh into the product page. Um risk reversal. Uh going product page. Um risk reversal. Uh going to talk about uh delivery windows. It to talk about uh delivery windows. It decides it's wrong. The fact that we decides it's wrong. The fact that we have free exchanges. Uh it's going to have free exchanges. Uh it's going to create this complete the fit uh section. create this complete the fit uh section. Uh it's going to have the FAQ sticky add Uh it's going to have the FAQ sticky add to cart uh etc. Uh it does give us uh to cart uh etc. Uh it does give us uh just a few things you know before we go just a few things you know before we go live. The fact that you know reviews live. The fact that you know reviews will be empty because we basically told will be empty because we basically told it like we don't have reviews. So, um, it like we don't have reviews. So, um, again, this is just more of a let's make again, this is just more of a let's make sure that we're on the same page, sure that we're on the same page, Claude, uh, before we, uh, before we Claude, uh, before we, uh, before we jump the gun and, uh, and try doing jump the gun and, uh, and try doing everything. So, just a, again, good everything. So, just a, again, good practice to do, um, when, um, when practice to do, um, when, um, when you're doing these type of things. Now, you're doing these type of things. Now, um, the next portion is it's really, you um, the next portion is it's really, you know, basically letting it know like know, basically letting it know like you're connected through our to our you're connected through our to our Shopify store through MCP. Make this Shopify store through MCP. Make this happen on the draft theme horizon happen on the draft theme horizon product page test. So, just a little product page test. So, just a little caveat here. Um, we've already uh if I caveat here. Um, we've already uh if I go here to my settings on on cloud and I go here to my settings on on cloud and I go to connectors, you'll see that we go to connectors, you'll see that we already have Shopify in here, it's already have Shopify in here, it's already been connected to our store. Um, already been connected to our store. Um, if you're unsure if your um if your if you're unsure if your um if your cloud is connected, as long as you have cloud is connected, as long as you have this Shopify cloud connector app this Shopify cloud connector app installed here on your Shopify, that installed here on your Shopify, that means that you have that official MCP means that you have that official MCP connection. So, you can always just connection. So, you can always just reference your Shopify store and the reference your Shopify store and the themes that you have. Now, um just know themes that you have. Now, um just know that anything that has to do with Claude that anything that has to do with Claude making changes to the to the site, it it making changes to the to the site, it it just means that it cannot make any just means that it cannot make any changes to the live theme. Uh it can changes to the live theme. Uh it can only make changes to the draft themes in only make changes to the draft themes in here. So, what I basically told it was here. So, what I basically told it was like, hey, I'm going to copy I'm going like, hey, I'm going to copy I'm going to give this a unique name. So, if you to give this a unique name. So, if you don't have a unique name for it, I would don't have a unique name for it, I would say maybe duplicate your your current say maybe duplicate your your current one. Have it down here. Um, rename it one. Have it down here. Um, rename it and make it something that you'll and make it something that you'll remember what was the big change that remember what was the big change that you did here. So, we have product page you did here. So, we have product page test as the the name of the of the test as the the name of the of the theme. And then this, we just copy it theme. And then this, we just copy it and we paste it and we let club know, and we paste it and we let club know, hey, this is the theme that we want to hey, this is the theme that we want to work on, not any of the other ones that work on, not any of the other ones that I have here. So, you probably have a lot I have here. So, you probably have a lot of themes under under draft. So, we just of themes under under draft. So, we just letting it know like, "Hey, f go find letting it know like, "Hey, f go find this and this is the one that we want to this and this is the one that we want to we want to use." Um, it goes into um our we want to use." Um, it goes into um our our account. It finds it actually finds our account. It finds it actually finds the product that we're talking about. Uh the product that we're talking about. Uh it finds uh it finds it the imagery. Um it finds uh it finds it the imagery. Um the fact that it knows that it's active the fact that it knows that it's active um and then it goes in and makes the um and then it goes in and makes the changes. So, um this was a a first changes. So, um this was a a first prompt um where it created a lot of prompt um where it created a lot of different things in here. Uh it's also different things in here. Uh it's also telling me like hey based on what we telling me like hey based on what we talked about like you only have you know talked about like you only have you know five images instead of the you know six five images instead of the you know six eight. Um it's letting me know that it eight. Um it's letting me know that it created um all these uh all these created um all these uh all these additional things. By the way this um additional things. By the way this um obviously for the purpose of this video obviously for the purpose of this video we just kind of um went through through we just kind of um went through through all this and this is where where I kind all this and this is where where I kind of stopped. But um just know that it of stopped. But um just know that it didn't get everything that I wanted. So didn't get everything that I wanted. So we're going to reprompt it and we're we're going to reprompt it and we're going to fix it live here on u on the going to fix it live here on u on the screen recording. But I do want to show screen recording. But I do want to show you what it it ended up with. Uh because you what it it ended up with. Uh because again, there's still some best again, there's still some best practices. I want to make sure that it practices. I want to make sure that it gets correctly. So, we're going to gets correctly. So, we're going to prompt it together here. So, again, this prompt it together here. So, again, this is where we had started um and what it is where we had started um and what it created. I think it's still it still created. I think it's still it still missed a few things. Um and that's where missed a few things. Um and that's where when you do a big prompt like this, um when you do a big prompt like this, um you may run into things like this where you may run into things like this where um it will, you know, cause some cause um it will, you know, cause some cause some things to to just not work, you some things to to just not work, you know, entirely like we wanted. Um, it know, entirely like we wanted. Um, it does have this right here, which I think does have this right here, which I think it's super super important. Um, this is it's super super important. Um, this is kind of like your value statement. Um, kind of like your value statement. Um, or what makes this product unique. Um, or what makes this product unique. Um, almost like a product title sub almost like a product title sub headline, right? If if this could follow headline, right? If if this could follow this product title around, it will it this product title around, it will it will give this a little bit more context will give this a little bit more context into uh into what this t-shirt is and into uh into what this t-shirt is and who is it for and all that kind of who is it for and all that kind of stuff. So, just a nice value statement. stuff. So, just a nice value statement. Uh it looks like it added that Uh it looks like it added that additional section here. Um it didn't additional section here. Um it didn't touch these. So this is something that I touch these. So this is something that I definitely want to uh to revisit. Um it definitely want to uh to revisit. Um it did add this additional text in here did add this additional text in here that lets them know that hey this is that lets them know that hey this is actually local. Um we we've been here actually local. Um we we've been here and we've done this. Um it looks like and we've done this. Um it looks like interesting. So it looks like it did the interesting. So it looks like it did the fit and sizing as a drop down right here fit and sizing as a drop down right here as an accordion row. We're going to try as an accordion row. We're going to try to uh restructure that so it actually to uh restructure that so it actually shows uh somewhere near here the the shows uh somewhere near here the the size selection. Uh, so we'll see if we size selection. Uh, so we'll see if we can do that there. And then it looks can do that there. And then it looks like it added a couple of accordionss, like it added a couple of accordionss, craft and care, uh, shipping and returns craft and care, uh, shipping and returns and exchanges. Amazing. Uh, again, it and exchanges. Amazing. Uh, again, it has a little bracket in here. So, we has a little bracket in here. So, we have to confirm just a little bit more have to confirm just a little bit more information there. But, uh, the fact information there. But, uh, the fact that, yeah, it created all this. It, you that, yeah, it created all this. It, you know, grabbed the icons. Uh, and then know, grabbed the icons. Uh, and then also has to complete the fit. So, if we also has to complete the fit. So, if we would have given information and would have given information and obviously with this test store, we don't obviously with this test store, we don't have additional products in here, but if have additional products in here, but if we give it the information of like, we give it the information of like, yeah, this shirt goes with this hat and yeah, this shirt goes with this hat and these pants, like boom, we can have the these pants, like boom, we can have the information already in here uh for that information already in here uh for that complete to fit, which is just complete to fit, which is just absolutely incredible. Um, and then the absolutely incredible. Um, and then the other thing, let me see if it actually other thing, let me see if it actually did it. Okay, yeah, it added the review did it. Okay, yeah, it added the review stars. Obviously, because we don't have stars. Obviously, because we don't have any reviews, um, it just doesn't any reviews, um, it just doesn't showcase anything. But the other thing showcase anything. But the other thing that I'm going to ask it to do is that I'm going to ask it to do is actually add the judge me um star rating actually add the judge me um star rating section. Oh, also uh we see the yeah the section. Oh, also uh we see the yeah the the sticky add to cart in here. This is the sticky add to cart in here. This is a feature of Horizon. So that was a feature of Horizon. So that was probably just a very simple just turn probably just a very simple just turn let's turn this on uh for Horizon. So let's turn this on uh for Horizon. So yeah, there's still quite a few changes yeah, there's still quite a few changes that I want to do um in here. Um I have that I want to do um in here. Um I have a a just a simple prompt really um and a a just a simple prompt really um and just trying to we're going to try to do just trying to we're going to try to do this all at once. Uh, which again, it this all at once. Uh, which again, it may not be the best best thing to do, may not be the best best thing to do, but just for the for the purpose of this but just for the for the purpose of this video. Um, and what I'm trying to say is video. Um, and what I'm trying to say is that these I have eight things in here that these I have eight things in here that we're gonna we're gonna try to do. that we're gonna we're gonna try to do. Um, and just tell it to to work on. Um, Um, and just tell it to to work on. Um, if it can do all of them at once, that's if it can do all of them at once, that's amazing. There may be some of these that amazing. There may be some of these that we'll have to kind of revisit and then we'll have to kind of revisit and then keep prompting. Um, but let's see what keep prompting. Um, but let's see what it does. Um, basically, I have the fact it does. Um, basically, I have the fact that I want to change the the media uh that I want to change the the media uh to actually have thumbnails, uh, the to actually have thumbnails, uh, the variant selectors. I don't want the drop variant selectors. I don't want the drop downs. uh ensure that it has proper downs. uh ensure that it has proper color swatches. Um we want a single add color swatches. Um we want a single add toart button. We don't want multiple toart button. We don't want multiple options in here. Uh we just want again options in here. Uh we just want again that linear path to getting to checkout. that linear path to getting to checkout. So having multiple buttons here is not So having multiple buttons here is not great if you have a lot of different great if you have a lot of different clothing and you want customers to keep clothing and you want customers to keep adding things to the cart. If you have adding things to the cart. If you have to buy it now, they bypass everything. to buy it now, they bypass everything. Um so you want to keep that. Also, this Um so you want to keep that. Also, this quantity selector, I don't think it's quantity selector, I don't think it's needed. um if they want more of the same needed. um if they want more of the same shirt. Again, if they have it in the shirt. Again, if they have it in the cart, they can um add more within there. cart, they can um add more within there. Uh we're also Yeah, that one right Uh we're also Yeah, that one right there. Um also want to condense the there. Um also want to condense the product description. I do think that product description. I do think that because uh some of these details are because uh some of these details are already named in the crafting gear. I already named in the crafting gear. I don't think it's necessary to don't think it's necessary to necessarily put them here again. So, um necessarily put them here again. So, um that's where I I want it to go in and that's where I I want it to go in and actually manipulate that product actually manipulate that product description. And then the yeah, the description. And then the yeah, the judge me uh review widget needs to be judge me uh review widget needs to be there. And then the the size chart there. And then the the size chart popup. Let's see. This is the one that popup. Let's see. This is the one that I'm maybe a little bit more concerned, I'm maybe a little bit more concerned, but let's see what it uh what it but let's see what it uh what it actually does uh with it. Um so, let me actually does uh with it. Um so, let me prompt this and I will let you know how prompt this and I will let you know how long this takes um and what the what the long this takes um and what the what the result is. I also wanted to let you know result is. I also wanted to let you know that this original one, it took about 10 that this original one, it took about 10 minutes. 10 minutes to to make all these minutes. 10 minutes to to make all these changes here um on this on this product changes here um on this on this product page. And again, not perfect because page. And again, not perfect because there's not going to be a single prompt there's not going to be a single prompt that will allow you to uh do this just that will allow you to uh do this just 100% um out the gate. there will be it 100% um out the gate. there will be it will be a full conversation that you will be a full conversation that you will be having. will be having. All right. So, according to this, it All right. So, according to this, it looks like it was potentially able to do looks like it was potentially able to do majority of these things. So, let's go majority of these things. So, let's go and check it out. Um, and check it out. Um, and see what it did. I mean, if if it and see what it did. I mean, if if it did all of them, then I'll be very did all of them, then I'll be very impressed. So, let's go here to our impressed. So, let's go here to our product page. We've refreshed this product page. We've refreshed this already. All right. Uh, so we see our already. All right. Uh, so we see our color selection is in here. That looks color selection is in here. That looks nice. Uh, we have main image and nice. Uh, we have main image and thumbnails right below. Didn't touch thumbnails right below. Didn't touch this for whatever reason. We still have this for whatever reason. We still have the sizing down here as well. Let's see the sizing down here as well. Let's see if we click on the size guide. Okay, it if we click on the size guide. Okay, it has a size guide. Um, probably a little has a size guide. Um, probably a little bit hard to to read. Same as the one bit hard to to read. Same as the one below. So, let's see if we can change below. So, let's see if we can change that. Um, and then we have our reviews that. Um, and then we have our reviews widget, which it looks like, u, it just widget, which it looks like, u, it just added a piece of text, so maybe it's not added a piece of text, so maybe it's not able to technically add those features. able to technically add those features. And I just want to make sure. Yeah, we And I just want to make sure. Yeah, we do have judge me enabled here. So, do have judge me enabled here. So, should be able to grab a hold of that. should be able to grab a hold of that. Now, let's see. The other thing that I Now, let's see. The other thing that I just noticed here, um, just noticed here, um, it has, if we do buttons, it has, if we do buttons, that's really what we what it needed to that's really what we what it needed to do. Um, but a glaring issue. Oh, there it is. Um, I was about to say like this Um, I was about to say like this something like the sizing was not was something like the sizing was not was not showcased, but yeah, perfect. Yeah, not showcased, but yeah, perfect. Yeah, that's exactly what we want there. We that's exactly what we want there. We want we want sizing. Um, and so with want we want sizing. Um, and so with this, I don't know why. Let me see. Uh, this, I don't know why. Let me see. Uh, we're going to send entry. Um, but it we're going to send entry. Um, but it didn't delete that. Let me didn't delete that. Let me double check that. double check that. Yeah, looks like it wasn't able to do Yeah, looks like it wasn't able to do that. So, um, with those, let's just that. So, um, with those, let's just let's just do it ourselves. Um, we just, let's just do it ourselves. Um, we just, uh, basically hide those with the uh, basically hide those with the quantity. Let me just click save. Maybe quantity. Let me just click save. Maybe there's a little bug. Now, there it is. there's a little bug. Now, there it is. Um, so yeah, quantity and accelerated Um, so yeah, quantity and accelerated checkout are the ones that we're just checkout are the ones that we're just we're hiding just kind of leaving it as we're hiding just kind of leaving it as this um simple um add to cart button in this um simple um add to cart button in here. Um, we do have the size guide with here. Um, we do have the size guide with the pop-up link, which just works the pop-up link, which just works beautifully there. Um, and then again, beautifully there. Um, and then again, we have all that information that we we have all that information that we needed uh before. Um, so yeah, that's needed uh before. Um, so yeah, that's interesting how like let me see what it interesting how like let me see what it said here about judge me. Um, but it's said here about judge me. Um, but it's not wired to any theme yet. Um, okay, not wired to any theme yet. Um, okay, there's no admin API. Okay, so that's there's no admin API. Okay, so that's probably why it's like maybe part of the probably why it's like maybe part of the uh the things that, you know, uh, Cloud uh the things that, you know, uh, Cloud can and cannot do. It looks like it may can and cannot do. It looks like it may not be able to access um the apps not be able to access um the apps themselves and add the blocks, but it themselves and add the blocks, but it can at least let us know, hey, there's can at least let us know, hey, there's the the block that you need to add. Um the the block that you need to add. Um it's it's right there. So, typically, it's it's right there. So, typically, let me just hover over that section let me just hover over that section there. Um if we do header, like yeah, there. Um if we do header, like yeah, we'll essentially remove that and we'll we'll essentially remove that and we'll add the section. We'll do apps and then add the section. We'll do apps and then we'll do that review widget. That review we'll do that review widget. That review widget um will be the one that we want widget um will be the one that we want to have just right above that. you may to have just right above that. you may also like. So, we'll showcase reviews also like. So, we'll showcase reviews for the product. Um, we have all the for the product. Um, we have all the product info in here. Let's click save product info in here. Let's click save on that. Um, all right. So, I think this on that. Um, all right. So, I think this is uh this is pretty good. Let me is uh this is pretty good. Let me see if we can reprompt this into an see if we can reprompt this into an HTML. Um, let's just let's just do that HTML. Um, let's just let's just do that exactly. So, um let's um let's say let's exactly. So, um let's um let's say let's fix the size chart popup. um fix the size chart popup. um to be an actual like HTML table um with to be an actual like HTML table um with that data basically. So we want the same that data basically. So we want the same data but we want to reformat it into an data but we want to reformat it into an actual HTML table. All right, that was very quick, but it looks like it created the table. Let's looks like it created the table. Let's uh The beauty of this is that you just uh The beauty of this is that you just refresh your uh your tab here and refresh your uh your tab here and let's see. let's see. Beautiful. Beautiful. That is absolutely beautiful. Um, okay. That is absolutely beautiful. Um, okay. It looks like my changes, uh, guess been It looks like my changes, uh, guess been saved. Um, saved. Um, kind of went back and reverted a couple kind of went back and reverted a couple of things there. Um, so that's, uh, of things there. Um, so that's, uh, that's interesting there. Um, that's interesting there. Um, but it could be. Okay. Yeah, it could but it could be. Okay. Yeah, it could be. So, I guess anytime that you make be. So, I guess anytime that you make changes to it, um, basically have to let changes to it, um, basically have to let it know, hey, go back and look at my it know, hey, go back and look at my site uh, before making those changes. uh site uh, before making those changes. uh because the adjustments that it just because the adjustments that it just made, it kind of re-uploaded a version made, it kind of re-uploaded a version of the theme that I already had in of the theme that I already had in place. Um and when it did that, it place. Um and when it did that, it essentially removed uh some of the essentially removed uh some of the things that I had in here. It could be things that I had in here. It could be that or the fact that I didn't save. Uh that or the fact that I didn't save. Uh I could be I could be wrong there. Um I could be I could be wrong there. Um but okay. Um yeah, there we have it. I but okay. Um yeah, there we have it. I think that the the the main thing that I think that the the the main thing that I wanted to I want you to get out of this wanted to I want you to get out of this is the fact that you you can do you can is the fact that you you can do you can do all these things. You can do these do all these things. You can do these things and more. And um I think that things and more. And um I think that once um once you have the basics down once um once you have the basics down then that's when it actually gets fun then that's when it actually gets fun when we can add um a lot more things when we can add um a lot more things into into this product page. I mean, we into into this product page. I mean, we haven't really talked about um haven't really talked about um addressing um true a true product addressing um true a true product benefit section uh for the product down benefit section uh for the product down here. Some additional imagery here. Some additional imagery potentially having video um doing a potentially having video um doing a section about the brand in general, section about the brand in general, trust badges. Uh there's still quite a trust badges. Uh there's still quite a lot of things that um I would want to lot of things that um I would want to teach you on know how to do and make teach you on know how to do and make this feel like a true premium product this feel like a true premium product page. Um we're just kind of scratching page. Um we're just kind of scratching the the surface here on what we can do. the the surface here on what we can do. Um, and if you're interested, uh, please Um, and if you're interested, uh, please let me know because, uh, video part two let me know because, uh, video part two of this, just a continuation, um, of of this, just a continuation, um, of making this the best product page, uh, making this the best product page, uh, is in the books. So, let me know in the is in the books. So, let me know in the comments, um, this little little snippet comments, um, this little little snippet here. Uh, but let me know in the here. Uh, but let me know in the comments uh, if you if you want this comments uh, if you if you want this part two, uh, because we will make this part two, uh, because we will make this very, very quickly. Okay, let me give very, very quickly. Okay, let me give you five places where this could all go you five places where this could all go wrong. Number one, obviously anything wrong. Number one, obviously anything with the checkout you technically cannot with the checkout you technically cannot do unless you're on Shopify Plus, you do unless you're on Shopify Plus, you cannot do anything within the checkout. cannot do anything within the checkout. So, you will have to upgrade to the So, you will have to upgrade to the checkout Shopify Plus in order to get checkout Shopify Plus in order to get information there. I'll also say and information there. I'll also say and I've done things to help manipulate the I've done things to help manipulate the actual cart, but that is a I would say actual cart, but that is a I would say revenue critical logic, right? That does revenue critical logic, right? That does require I think a little bit more more require I think a little bit more more massaging, more testing, more making massaging, more testing, more making sure that the right things are being sure that the right things are being applied, right? Number two, sometimes it applied, right? Number two, sometimes it could confidently write, you know, could confidently write, you know, custom liquid that maybe references custom liquid that maybe references something in your theme that you just something in your theme that you just don't have. That's where like having don't have. That's where like having that proper connection from Shopify and that proper connection from Shopify and Cloud MCP will probably catch a lot of Cloud MCP will probably catch a lot of that. Maybe not everything. That's why that. Maybe not everything. That's why you definitely need to preview every you definitely need to preview every single time before you publish. Again, single time before you publish. Again, preview every single time with actual preview every single time with actual devices, different browsers before you devices, different browsers before you publish. Three, a lot of times they will publish. Three, a lot of times they will happily add scripts or even web fonts happily add scripts or even web fonts that you didn't actually need. You that you didn't actually need. You definitely need to watch your page definitely need to watch your page weight. So after you launch, like I weight. So after you launch, like I think the the best thing to do is go to think the the best thing to do is go to page speed insights and just run a speed page speed insights and just run a speed test through that product page that you test through that product page that you just built. If that takes more than 6 just built. If that takes more than 6 seconds to load or converts worse than seconds to load or converts worse than the plain one that you started with, the plain one that you started with, then that's a problem. So just be paying then that's a problem. So just be paying attention to the amount of font. I would attention to the amount of font. I would say that's maybe a little thing that say that's maybe a little thing that I've seen it where it adds some I've seen it where it adds some additional font in the back end. So you additional font in the back end. So you definitely want to make sure that that's definitely want to make sure that that's not being done. And lastly, like this not being done. And lastly, like this cannot tell you whether this new product cannot tell you whether this new product page that we created is actually page that we created is actually working, right? So if you want, you working, right? So if you want, you could actually do a true AB test with could actually do a true AB test with real traffic through Shopify. Like real traffic through Shopify. Like that's something that they've given us that's something that they've given us the access to do now. So you can ship the access to do now. So you can ship it, ship it, measure it. I would say do it, ship it, measure it. I would say do not fall in love right with your own not fall in love right with your own layout because sometimes like that new layout because sometimes like that new layout although it's nice and shiny and layout although it's nice and shiny and it has all the right things maybe it it has all the right things maybe it needs to be said or told in a completely needs to be said or told in a completely different way. So just keep that in different way. So just keep that in mind. So again I think out of all these mind. So again I think out of all these things is what I'm trying to say is things is what I'm trying to say is pretty simple. It's a you need to you pretty simple. It's a you need to you need to preview it. You need to I think need to preview it. You need to I think do a proper testing of all these things. do a proper testing of all these things. If it doesn't work roll it back write If it doesn't work roll it back write what you changed you know try again. what you changed you know try again. This doesn't necessarily turn you into a This doesn't necessarily turn you into a Shopify developer. it just removes the Shopify developer. it just removes the reason that you've been putting off the reason that you've been putting off the work for 8 months or more. So again, get work for 8 months or more. So again, get the blueprint before you design. You the blueprint before you design. You want to feed it real inputs specifically want to feed it real inputs specifically from things that your customers are from things that your customers are actually saying. Then you want to build actually saying. Then you want to build your copy tied to specs, your actual your copy tied to specs, your actual voice with objections handled first and voice with objections handled first and then you want to ship it on a duplicate then you want to ship it on a duplicate theme again with schema blocks so anyone theme again with schema blocks so anyone on the team can actually make changes in on the team can actually make changes in the future. And again, back to where we the future. And again, back to where we started, right? Same product, same started, right? Same product, same photos, same price, just a completely photos, same price, just a completely different page experience. That's the different page experience. That's the thing that I want you to sit with. Most thing that I want you to sit with. Most of the brands I talk to think that they of the brands I talk to think that they have a a product problem. They usually have a a product problem. They usually have a product page problem. And those have a product page problem. And those are very different amount of work, I are very different amount of work, I would say, to to fix those two things. would say, to to fix those two things. Now, if you enjoyed this video on Claude Now, if you enjoyed this video on Claude and the product pages, you can check out and the product pages, you can check out this video over here
