Represent is one of the fastest growing streetwear brands in the world. They got retail stores, celebrity co-signs, and a Shopify site that looks like it was designed by a team of 50 people. But, here's the thing, their collection page is not magic. It's It's not custom code. Almost everything they're doing can be rebuilt on a standard Shopify theme for free. So, exactly what I did. I rebuilt Represent's collection page from scratch, and in this video I'm going to show you exactly how to do it step-by-step for your own clothing brand. Stick around because in the by the end of this video, your collection page is going to look so premium, so crispy, and so good to keep asking for more. If you're new here, my name is Christian Pinyon. I'm co-founder of VIP Branding based in Allen, Texas. We are a Shopify focused agency that works specifically with clothing [music] brands. We built hundreds of stores, audited thousands of product pages, and we know what actually converts in the fashion e-commerce space. Now, Represent is a UK-based luxury streetwear brand founded by the Heaton brothers. They built this brand from a bedroom in Manchester into a global operation with physical retail stores, a 24/7 activewear sub-brand, collaborations with Puma, Iron Maiden, Oasis, Metallica. I mean, the list goes on and on. Literally. Their site is running on Shopify, and [music] they recently moved from headless back to Shopify native, which tells you something about where the platform I think it's It's heading. And today I want to break down three things that I think Represent does incredibly well on their collection pages. And more importantly, I'm going to show you how you can actually recreate each one for free. No custom code, no expensive apps, nothing like that. We're just literally going to use the Horizon theme on Shopify, which is a I think the best theme [music] the best free theme that Shopify has right now. Dawn used to be king, but now Horizon is king. So, let me show you the road map. Strategy one, we're going to talk about the collection page layout and its visual hierarchy. It's kind of like the bones of why it looks so clean and why it looks the look at look the the the way that it looks. Strategy two is going to be the product card system. So, hover effects, quick add, color swatches, how they make 127 products feel like something you can actually navigate [music] through, you know? And then strategy three is the collection level content strategy. We're talking about hero banners, collection descriptions, and the prestige loyalty call to action. So, let's get into it. So, strategy one is the collection page layout and visual hierarchy. I think the first thing that you notice about Represent's collection page, it's basically what's not there. There's no clutter, there's no sidebar, there's no 14 filter option crammed into tiny little column. It just looks clean, it looks premium, very product forward, right? They're the the products are probably the biggest things end to end. There's no spacing even in between these products or anything. So, let's break down the structure, and then let's go to after that let's go to Shopify and rebuild, or try to rebuild, as best as we can. So, I think at the very top of the of the page here, we have the collection image. It's like a full-width lifestyle hero type image. Um it's I think it looks nice. Editorial type style. Um I think it immediately communicates the vibe of the whole collection. Um and obviously right underneath you get the the title. You get a nice little product count. I have seen that product count on some other themes. They added by I think Broadcast actually may have that by default, which is kind of nice. And then we have our short description that tells a little bit more about that particular collection, the owner's club. And we do have this truncates, so we do have an option to do read more, read less. Although this one may be just perfect, so it doesn't really need that. So, it's kind of annoying that it still shows um on here, but it doesn't Actually, I do have another one here that it does actually do the do the thing that's supposed to do, right? Like especially if it's a longer collection, you don't necessarily want to have a wall of text for the customer to fully, you know, have to scroll down through to see that. But So, yeah, that's kind of like the the the very top here. Let me see uh I think the Okay, so the Yeah, the other thing that um I'm I do want to just kind of scroll down here a little bit and show you they do have a an option to do different types of view. So, you can do The default is a four four column, then they go into a 1 2 3 4 Yeah, that many. Uh and then three. So, it's kind of interesting how Yeah, they they do that. And then here is where they have filters where you can do Yeah, price range, category, size, all that kind of stuff. Do you apply, clear the selection, etc. So, it's a nice little sidebar that comes in when you when you actually click on it. Let's see um what else here. Um obviously the products do have that on hover shows the second second image. They do have a nice little quick buy. Uh it's actually very sleek. This is like one of those that I had I don't know that we'll be able to fully recreate. Let's see what we can do, but yeah, I don't I honestly don't think that we'll be able to do this, but this is super nice. Um cuz at a glance you can kind of see what sizes are sold out without having to even go to the collection page, which is super beneficial. Um and the other thing is I also noticed they they have the same they have the same product, but they have them split by colorway. So, these two are the exact same product. It's just they're showing you the black and the ash gray in here. And then let me see, do they show any of the other ones? Yeah, flat white is over here. So, yeah, I think they just spread them out throughout the whole collection, but they still let you know that hey, we have this in eight different colors, and then they have the color variation right underneath. I think the products that I have for this for this test don't have They're not split off like this. Um but we'll see we'll see if we can maybe do the the color variants to showcase like that. That'll be That'll be That'll be a challenge for sure. And let's scroll down here towards the bottom. As you can see, at the very bottom they're showing you 60 products at a glance, and then they have a load more button in here. Again, we'll we'll double-check what Horizon gives us out the box. Um then they have a This is a brea- what we call breadcrumbs. Um it's beneficial to have them for for SEO purposes. Um and then we have recently viewed items. Um again, if you have a clothing store, you have more than 20 items, this is a must-have on collection page and your product page. And I would say even your home page uh this section should be on all of those. And then here at the very bottom we have like maybe a little bit of a longer description. Uh I wish they actually did a little bit more with this cuz they could do a lot of just good SEO practices. Like there's nothing linked in here. Uh they could definitely be doing that. But we're Hey, we're not we're not here to judge. We're here to try to re- replicate what they have. So, this longer description is something that Yeah, we've we've done before on this channel. Uh if you've watched any of our uh our other videos. Yeah, anyways, [clears throat] um I just want to Yeah, just kind of quick rundown of everything. Um now, with this first strategy, just the the actual page layout and everything, um what I want to tackle first is going to be the the banner. So, we're going to do the the full hero banner. Um we're going to focus on that grid that four-column grid, just kind of like that spacing, uh and see how we can we can recreate that. They also have a more of like a portrait style photo in here as well. Um we'll also kind of talk about that. Um which I typically recommend for for clothing brands to use a more of a portrait versus like some brands will do like a square, and it's okay, but I I do think portrait style it can fit variety of products I think a little bit easier. And then the last thing that we'll take care of like the kind of like this strategy one version one would be the the filtering um and then the maybe the even this view, see what what Horizon gives us out of the box. So, let's go let's go jump into into Horizon. We do have our our Represent uh test page that we we've been working on. Um if you If you have missed the the first video, maybe it's first second video, like we had a couple of videos on this series. Uh but now we're just tackling the the actual collection page. So, these pictures in here they're they're not, you know, Represent. They're They're just another video that I was actually working on, but um I think it just they just work well um with with this. So, what we'll do in here is we'll see what options do we have um just out the gate with with the Horizon. And as you can see, this is very uh it's a very short page because I don't have a lot of products, right? Um so, we won't get the same visual effect right out of the the whole scrolling and everything. Um I may actually just add another product a fourth product just to kind of get that four grid working correctly. So, um let's go ahead and and do that real quick. Let me Let me go to products, and what was that? That was like the spring 26 collection. Let me just do Actually, I do have this Represent hoodie that I added in here again just for educational purposes. Um let's see if we can Yeah, just add that to the spring. Click save. We'll go back over here, and we'll refresh. This should show us the four products in here now. Okay. Um did I on my store? It's active. It has everything. Is it just uh Okay, yeah. I needed another another love tap there. Perfect. Okay. So, yeah, let's start from the top. This this hero banner. So, the hero banner let's actually see if we can just quickly grab this. If we can't, um I have this little handy tool. It gives us Sometimes it gives us what we need, sometimes it doesn't. I think this is it. Oh, that's the mobile version. Um which that's fine. I think the last video we ended up doing the mobile anyways. But yeah, we'll kind of predominantly work on the desktop, but yeah, we'll we'll do the mobile and see [clears throat] how that looks in here. So, um let's see what we can do. So, collection Yeah, yeah, every every collection default collection page has this collection heading, which could be good and could actually work for what we need, but let me see. Let me add a block and see if it allows me. Okay, perfect. So, yeah, I could do an image in here. And then this image What I What we typically want to do here is actually attach the image instead of selecting like the image and putting it here. We don't want to do that because then that would go for every single collection on our on our page. So, there's 15 collections attached to this default collection template. So, we don't want to do it like that. What we want to do is we want to connect it with the dynamic source and connect the image. So, that image that we just connected there, right now it's going to show you nothing, just a preview. Or the ones Those are the ones that show up here under collections and if we go to spring 26, that it will be this image in here. So, let me just add that that mobile. Let me see if that works. Actually, there looks like there's a little error in there. Let me just um we'll just we'll just do this picture for now. Um let me see if I have any of the other ones. I don't. Let's just do this one. This one may look better. We'll click save and then that should give us Let me click save on this on the theme. By the way, like if you don't Like to me that this is like the fastest way to work on Shopify is having your theme open in a new tab and have your back end open in a different tab cuz the amount of times that you have to kind of go back and forth between the two, uh it's insane. So, it's always good to kind of keep keep both tabs open so you can jump back and forth. Um so, that's what I'm doing. I'm just kind of jumping back and forth quickly uh between the two. So, for this So, okay, this is this is okay. Obviously, it's a nano banana shoutout uh generated there. But, I do want this to go left to right all the way. Um looks like desktop width Can we do custom? 100% it still doesn't go all the way. Now, this could it could be It's one of those things where like yeah, you're making a change on the image which is like inside of this collection heading. So, you may have to go one up every time. Here we go. So, size full. That's what we want. Yeah, perfect. Left to right. That's how they have it. Correct? Yeah, so full image left to right. They do have it where the navigation is sort of like transparent or like right on top. I believe that would be a thing with the header which is I know it's it's kind of counterintuitive here to jump to a different thing, but we should be able to Yeah, collection page transparent background is checked. Let me click save. So, that should have made our collection transparent, but I don't see Okay, so when you start scrolling, you kind of get that transparent effect, but it does just show up there at the top. Let me just see. Yeah, so yeah, typically it's just a a nice little Yeah, you just checkmark this. I don't know why. There's also like just a little bit of extra space in there. Let me see if it has to do with Yeah, maybe this padding there at the top. Hmm, no. They're still not quite reaching everything that needs Now, okay, so let's look at the images. Does the image have any padding? Doesn't look like it. No. Interesting. And then this is size of the collection heading. Okay, auto. Let's try medium. No. Large? Does that do anything? Does this have to do It's like one of those things where you kind of have to go back and forth a little bit between these sections cuz they could affect one another. Um let's see. Height fill. No. Desktop width. This one doesn't really doesn't really make any big changes in here. So, what I'm trying to figure out is for example, on this one, obviously there's a certain height, right? For the for the full image, but I think what you may end up doing with Horizon is like you'll have to like if you're creating this image maybe on Canva or Photoshop, like you have to like just use these pixels, right? So, and just to kind of give you I have this little handy dandy ruler. It's called better ruler. Just a little Chrome extension. Um and you can kind of quickly Oops, let me do that again. Um just kind of see the dimensions of certain items, but that um going up and down, that's about yeah, 595. Give it a good 600 pixels tall. So, just know that that may be something that you would have to make it happen on on Canva or Photoshop and then when you bring in the image, it's kind of like the the aspect ratio that it will take, right? So, if you do the aspect ratio auto, that's what it would what it will do. I think if we do we landscape, does it Yeah, it kind of kind of does move it a little bit. Yeah, we don't really want that. We want it all the way. Um so, yeah, landscape does change it a little bit, but not not enough. So, this is just kind of taking into consideration the actual dimensions of the image to make sure that it just shows fully in here. Okay, so now that we have that I don't know why we Yeah, well we may go back to to why that's not not working like it like it should, but we have the the image and then right after that with a tiny headline with the number and paragraph. Let's see Let's see what we can do. I did I did try I'll tell you what I did try to do a couple things with the description to try to do the truncation, the read more read less. I couldn't get it to work with just regular custom CSS. With custom CSS you you can do certain things, but to add that functionality of clicking a button and doing all that, that's not something that you can just yeah, go here and then do the custom CSS and add a little bit of custom like that. It won't work that way. I may try something else um but we'll we'll kind of see what we can do. So, I think for now if we can do [clears throat] Okay, max width none. Alignment left. Okay, so that's more more in line, right? Where they're kind of expanding it, maybe not all the way, but expanding it a little bit more than I think what we what we had it. I think if we do Yeah, narrows to normal is even Like the only options they give us is like no width, normal, and narrow which are like very close to each other. But, we'll do none and I think this this gives us the that same feeling that they have. And then with the title, I did want to try and let's let's just try this. Um I I've never I haven't I haven't done anything like this, but let's try this generate um With generate, you can now do blocks as well. Before you couldn't do blocks, you could only do sections. But, now you can actually do blocks. So, let's try to do a block that has a Okay, so that uh headline with collection title Oops. And number Wait, number count. Number count of items and collection with ability to change size. Okay, I don't know. That's kind of wonky. We'll see We'll see what it will come up with here. Is it Okay. Hey, all right. That's That's not That's not bad. Um I don't care for the word items. I just wanted the count. Now, can the count >> [snorts] >> layout left. Space between Oh, okay. What about I want the title and product count to be in line. I think that's what we need. Okay, actually that's interesting. That's good. So, it can give us the count. So, yeah, we have four items in this collection. So, it's working correctly. Okay, um I think this is great. This is great. So, let's see. Can we How Okay, that's that's fine. Um let's put this right under here. Let's hide this main title. Let's remove that. Remove that. I don't know why it added the uh the parentheses. Remove the parentheses from the count. All right. That's That's exactly what we want. Okay, so again, yeah, let's get rid of the label. We don't want the label. We just want a simple count. Let's do 12. Yeah, so again, it's not It we could maybe even make it so that it's a I don't know what it's called whenever the number is like above the text, but we could probably even do that. Um but again, I don't want to I don't want to spend too much time here, but as you can see like you you generate first and then you can do follow-up instructions now. I will say these follow-up instructions uh from what I've seen, they they fall off, right? So, if if we start clicking away from it and we're not actively working on this anymore, uh I don't think there will be a way for us to follow up after the fact. So, you do want to kind of be diligent about making all the instructions happen in here. >> [snorts] >> Um And then once you're done, then actually clicking out of it. Um cuz otherwise you may have to kind of start all over again. Um now, I do know that it is. Um let's see. There is a little bit of padding. Is that what this is? Yeah, okay. Now, we're at least lining it up with the text. Although, I do think the text needs a little bit. Yeah, so they do have a little bit of padding there. Again, if we use that ruler, we're probably looking at maybe actually that those those 20 pixels that we have, maybe 10 pixels. Um let's go from here. Where is Okay. I can't even see. What does that say? Does it tell me Okay, yeah, no, it doesn't tell me. That's not That's not good. Guys, come on. Um Let me just do Yeah, it doesn't say. Um let me just try Okay, let's do this instead. Um I look at that one. And if I just do Oops. a similar one. Yeah, we're I mean, we're looking probably like yeah, 20 25 pixels in there. [snorts] So, [clears throat] let's uh re-add that and see if we have the option to also add some spacing on that description, which we do. Some This is like one of the reasons why I love Horizon. It's like they do give you all these little little things that you can manipulate and change and and add some spacing, etc., which is great. So, okay. That actually looks pretty good. Oh, yeah. I guess the other thing Let me Let me just see if we can do with this generate description of the collection with ability to truncate text with button to view more and view more view less, right? Okay, let's just let's try that. Again, I I tried just a little bit of custom CSS and dot route didn't end up working, but I think with this I mean, the fact that it did the product count, I think it can probably do this pretty pretty easily. So, we'll see. All right, let me let me just move it so I don't go crazy looking at it from up there. I'm going to hide the old one and now we have Okay, yeah, we have this version here. One, do we Okay, so we'll have to definitely add the or have the ability to add the padding in here. And then instead of placeholder text, view more view less description with text size, lines to show, one. Okay. Can we get rid of that and add the actual description? Okay, so All right, this one didn't work exactly like we wanted. Um so, it's either Yeah, it's either do trying to do a better prompt overall. Um and it's interesting how I don't have any text, but there is this description or Yeah, that's the actual description. But then Yeah, this is definitely not working like lines to show and I don't see the Yeah. So, again, I think it might be with a more detailed prompt we could get here. But again, for the sake of this video, I'm not going to keep exploring or diving deeper into that. Um but I will show you how to do the bottom description on this page. So, let's go ahead and save that and then let's move to the the grid. So, the grid we just want to make sure that we have that consistent Yeah, four grid column in here. And I think it does is just being responsive. Um so, if we do full desktop view, it's actually actually actually more we're having a a five grid in here. So, let's see if we can we can change that in here. So, we have card size Oh, I remember this. So, yeah, they don't give you an option to fully select the number that you want. It's just based off of large, medium, which is not ideal, but I kind of understand again what they're trying to do. Just trying to be a little bit more responsive. So, things just Yeah, kind of fall into place a little bit better. So, if we do medium and we do full view, yeah, it does give us five. And then if we do small card size, jeez, would that be like six or Yeah, six or seven different columns in here. Again, they're doing this so that it's a little bit more responsive. So, I think we'll have to go with large just to get us close as possible. So, we'll do the three grid. And then with this, let's see if we can figure out spacing. So, that would be again, we're just looking at the collection level overall. Horizon Yeah, horizontal gap. Beautiful. Okay, that's good. That's really good. Now, left to right, all going all the way to the end of the page. I think on mobile by default, yeah, it does that. So, that looks Yeah, super nice. And it's super killer, too, because again, a lot of times on mobile, like things are going to look tiny. So, if you can maximize that space, get rid of spacing in between products, get rid of spacing left and right on mobile, I would definitely do that. So, you can actually see more of the the product. Now, let's go in here. I think this is it. Yeah. Okay, that's that's that's easy. That's quick. I love it. I love it. All right, how are we looking, guys? Free Horizon theme? Not look not not looking bad. Not looking bad. All right, the other cool thing I think by default, yeah, they do have a you know, they you can change the view, which again, is not the exact same that Represent has, but just know that yeah, Horizon does have that little feature. Oh, they do have a count right here, too. So, we don't necessarily need that that whole thing that we did. They do have it in a in a different place, but that's fine. And then they have filters kind of laid out like this. I wonder if we can cuz they do have their filters obviously all in one place, but let's see what they give us in terms of options here. So, filters And obviously with filters, you you can customize them with the search and discovery app, which I think I have a couple videos on on that. But let's see. Direction, horizontal, vertical. We don't want vertical. I think horizontal will definitely be the way to do it. Full, that just means Okay, it goes all the way. Now, I'm I'm fine with it going all the way as long as we have Yeah, that 20 pixels left and right. So, let's see. We Yeah, yeah, we can add that. So, let's do 20 pixels left. Let's do 20 pixels right. But that way we're utilizing the space a little bit better. Text labels for swatches, text labels for applied filters sorting, grid layout control. Okay, that's that. Yeah, we do definitely want to have that enabled. Inherit color scheme. I think that's fine, too. Yeah, so overall, I mean, they give us a little bit, but I I wish they had a way to Yeah, kind of consolidate those just to make it sleeker. I think that would be my only quest there. And then let me just double-check. Sometimes again, you always want to check the sort of like the parent where where This is inside something else. Just go one above and just double-check that there's also nothing in there that could be. And then also, the last place I would say is like theme settings. Sometimes they hide certain things on the on the theme settings. So, that would be something to to take into account. Now, I do see within theme settings in here things that we do want to add. So, definitely show second image on hover. That's going to be some of the same functionality that they're using here where hover over the image, it shows you the second image. I think we have Yeah, a couple of those set up like that. Perfect. And then let's do Oh, quick add is the other one. So, they do Let's see how this works. Okay, so you see it's like it's a little bit more involved, right, than what they have. What they have is a little bit sleeker. But again, it This is like one of those things where if you And again, you may be able to fully prompt that out with a generate, but you're talking about generating filter and sorting, the product image like There's so much that will go into that, but you could. There There is a There is an ability to do that. To me, I don't think it's worth doing all going through all that for for that functionality. But again, it could be it could be a possibility there. Mobile Mobile quick add. How does mobile quick add? Is it the same way? Okay, yeah, that's clean. I wish it showed you the additional images just like desktop, but I'm good with that. Okay, let's save this. And again, this is kind of like where I mean, yeah, you look at this and you're like, yeah, that looks that looks pretty close. Yeah, that looks that looks pretty close to the collection page. Let me see what else I had here. I think the Yeah, that the one that we couldn't get fully done with the kind of like Yeah, collapsing all these filters into into one, but Okay, I'm I'm I'm pretty happy with this. Pretty happy with this. Great progress here. Now, let's jump into strategy two. This is the deep dive. Product card is a single, I think most important conversion element on a collection page. And Represent, I think, absolutely nails it. So, let's get into it. All right, strategy two. We're going to go a little bit more in depth with the product card system overall and see what we can what we can make happen in here. Again, we we already technically took care of a couple things. One being the the image hover, which was just a very simple toggle. Again, there's two places to find this. Like you can go to the collection section in itself. You scroll all the way down, you go to theme settings. And then this will show you theme settings that do the same the same buttons and the same clicks as if you would go through theme settings up here and then try to find it in here, which I couldn't even tell you. Product cards. Maybe that's Yeah, that's where it is. So, product cards and you'll see like these are the exact same levers that you would you would click. Just know that Yeah, that image second image on hover I think is huge for clothing brands. Like the if you can make this happen where you can just showcase multiple images at a glance without them having to, you know, go to the actual product page itself, I think it's a huge one. And I think by default, Horizon, you know, handles this really well, which is just that little toggle in here for, you know, image on hover. So, we got that one good and that one's just a pretty pretty easy one. Um next one, let's see. So, yeah, the inline quick add to cart. Again, I already, you know, mentioned that, but it is a very it could be a very, I would say, cumbersome way of showcasing or doing the quick add to cart like that. But we'll see if we can do, you know, something in here with maybe the the generate to at least showcase those additional sizes. And also want to see if we can get those color variations or something similar to show in here. And then let me see what else. I think the other Yeah, the the images. I think I I did want to just touch on a couple of things there cuz again, if you if you're doing these images in the back end and they're all different sizes, I think by default, the collection page, what it will do if we click here on the product image, the yeah, the aspect ratio will be set to auto. So, if it's set to auto and all these images are different sizes, a lot of times they will they will they will kind of they will look very wonky, right? Cuz you have some images are taller or they're shorter or whatever. Obviously, like the difference between for example these two products like this represent and then this one, it's just the fact that that's how much spacing I had on the original photo when I when I exported it from from Photoshop or Canva or whatever. So, that's like something to take into account as well. It's like the the image dimension, they could all be the exact same, but then the actual graphical image, you know, the product inside of that those dimensions could be smaller, right? From product to product. So, it's good to have that consistency between them. But that is something like to fix this to make it the same size as the other ones, you would have to kind of go back to, you know, where you create these photos and when you have these photos, then actually expand the size of this actual hoodie within the same dimensions that that it's in. But if you do have a bunch of different sizes, the actual dimensions of the photos are completely different, the aspect ratio could be changed to the portrait and that will give you like a little bit better control and it's you just easier, you don't have to kind of go back to to Photoshop to to make that change. And a lot of times I've I've fixed, you know, bad sizing issues by just switching the aspect ratio to portrait and it just kind of fixes throughout the whole website, which is super nice. So, that may be something that I would recommend recommend doing um in here. Now, let's see. We have the product title in here. Just curious on and we have the pricing, which yeah, they they do the same thing. Although they do have the pricing on the >> [clears throat] >> on the right-hand side. We have ours run underneath and I don't think can we can we do that? Kind of. We can kind of do it. Not not quite the same way. Um it looks kind of odd, yeah, being on a separate on a different line like that. Tax information, we don't we don't need tax information. Let's let's just keep it underneath for now and keep it how it is. But I do want to see if we do have the option to, let's see see if we have star reviews, which again, I don't think Represent does this, but you're not Represent, right? So, you you may need to to include some star ratings in here. So, that could be something that I would say it's not a bad idea to do. Okay, they do give us swatches. Let's see let's see how this looks. Okay, not great. Just kidding. Let's move it down here. Here. All right, so that shows us the full swatch. Let me just click on that. Okay, and then besides that it's just yeah, alignment and then padding. So, there's no there's no options to make it just a simple line of text like they do. So, again, I would say yeah, this definitely looks sleeker. This I think is more helpful cuz you actually know what the colors are versus the other one. So, let me let me just see if if we can do Okay, so you'll see like it does we can do blocks in certain sections cuz we could generate there, but in this one for example, we don't have the ability to click on the generate button. So, it just doesn't show up in here. We could do some custom liquid. There may be yeah, maybe some some issues that we'd run into there. And then let me just see like if we do text, just curious. Get rid of that. Okay, but they won't then is there a dynamic source? No. Product material product badge. Could we do color label? Okay. Yeah, not what we want cuz yeah, this would just kind of it's the same thing as color swatches, but instead of being a color swatch that's super easy to read, it's just the actual labels for for each of those. So, I'm not yeah, not not quite um what we need. Now, I will say like that could be a an easy thing with just doing a a like a meta field and it's a little bit cumbersome, right? Cuz you you now have to have this meta field that if you go for example like Run Deep Deep Tea, if we add a custom meta field that just says [music] Actually, let me just see. No, that one's not. Burn time, no. No. Product badge, maybe product badge. Let's try product badge. Let's just say like this has three colors. Is that how they say it? Yeah. Capitalize on the color. So, as a as a test, let me just add that piece of text in here. And what product this is is the Run Deep. Let's save that and then in here we could use that piece of text to then let me just click save and refresh just in case. Actually, let's just try connecting the dynamic source and then doing what was it? Product badge. It's right here. There you go, three colors. Okay, so you could do that. So, you could um have the the text that text kind of show up right underneath like that as a custom custom meta field. Not terrible. Not the best either. They I again, they're also doing something different here where they're splitting off their products by by colorway, which is and then when you actually click on the product, then they're actually combining them in here. So, what they may be using to to do that, it and the the theme has to support this, but it will be like product siblings, which you're essentially on the product page combining them, but on the collection page sort of separating them. If the theme doesn't have that, you will have to rely on an app to to make that happen. And I think there's like SA product variants, it's a it's one. So, let me just I'll I'll show you what that would look like. Combined listings, yeah. But again, if you're not using Horizon, then you may have this feature already installed. You just want to look for the in the product documentation of the theme, you want to look for product siblings. That's usually what they what they call it. Or you can also look for combined listings and you may see see that feature. Now, I'm happy with that. I'm actually very happy with that. Let's see what else. Do they I don't think they Again, just looking at directly the product card in itself, they don't really use badges. Actually, they do. So, they have this one that says restocked. Again, it's very simple, very subtle on top of the actual image. Let's see. I haven't checked really. I'm sure Horizon probably has some kind of badge. For badges, actually let me see if we add a block in here, does it give you Okay, I don't see it. And then product card in general, do we have anything? No. A lot of times honestly, you'll see it here under the theme settings and there it is, badges. Position on cards, top right, no. Top left is where they have it. And again, you'll see that this best sellers here by the way, that's just like baked in into the actual image itself. So, that was just a test that we were doing for another video. Okay, so we have the option to do the badges top left. Now, can we So, product cards, nothing. Interesting. So, they give us all the options on how that could look. Um but then I don't see anywhere in here. Let's go back over here to the collection. Let's go to back to the top of the collection just to make sure that I don't think we missed it anywhere. I don't see it there. Product card, I don't want borders. No no gap. Product image, nothing in there. Okay, interesting. And then the block, I didn't see an option cuz otherwise it would show us maybe like badge. Interesting. So, it could be that maybe the the badges in themselves are kind of like your your normal ones, right? Like if something is on sale for example. Let's just try that and see. So, if [clears throat] we make um one of these items with the compare at price, which this would be enter a higher value. So, yeah, so let's do 60. Save. We may have to yeah, do it on all of these just so we can see the effect of the whole product. So, and I think this will make it so that it shows the badge and then we'll double-check to see if there is an option >> [clears throat] >> to do Okay, there it is, yeah. Sale. And then there's a strike through and with the sale price and everything. So, yeah, it does have the option to do badges, but I think it's just your default badges and I didn't see anywhere in here to make custom badges from the theme. And yeah, there's no way to necessarily manipulate that from what I see in here. Yeah, anywhere in here or anywhere in the the actual theme settings. But yeah, typically if you were using a different theme, it will inside of badges you will have the option to. Cuz I've seen others that have custom badges that you can just create right from right there. But this doesn't it doesn't look like it gives us any other additional options or anything like that. So, yeah, looks like badges we may not be able to to fully recreate what what they do here on the page. So, we did that. We talked about that. We talked about badges. We talked about the color variants. Yeah, and then we we got the images to be or the products to be close together one to the other. So, yeah, I think this this strategy to the product cards a little bit tougher I would say to get it to look exactly like them, but I think we got some cool solutions with the meta field in there. And obviously, we we didn't get exactly everything that we wanted, but I think we got we got some of it in here. Okay, you're watching this video and you're looking at your own collection page and you're thinking mine looks nothing like this. That's okay. That's literally why we exist. At Verb Branding, we do a free 45-minute strategy calls with clothing brand owners. And we'll look at everything that you have going on. We'll give you some honest assessment and feedback and your where your I think your biggest opportunities are. And again, you can do that for free. You can book a call. There's a link in the description down below. But I know if you want to make improvements on your own, you can also just go to our website at branding.co. We have 10, 15 different products in there. There's some free ones. There's some freebies in there for you. So if if you're just want to get a little taste of some of the things that we offer, you can just get some of those [music] freebies. And if not, we also have some paid ones that will help you tremendously, trust me. So you can check that out at branding.co. All right, let's finish strong with strategy number three. I think this is what separates like basic collection pages from some that look actually premium. Represent doesn't just dump products on a page, they're actually building some some narrative around their actual collections. Let's jump in. All right, so this is going to be strategy three. This is more of the content strategy. I I think this really is what's going to separate like basic collection pages from like a more premium experience. And again, it also adds more of the narrative, right, of the actual collection. I think too many of you are doing collections with just no descriptions, no nothing. And I do think like the collection description, it's just a great piece of like overall brand storytelling. Even if it's a new arrivals or like a best sellers, it's just a great way to at bare minimum just add keywords for for SEO purposes. So and again, that those are I I think the two main reasons, right, why you would want to have this. It's like it gives you SEO crawlers some context behind what it's in this page. And the second thing is that it gives the customer then a reason to care about this collection, right, versus just browsing all product and seeing everything into into one place. Now, we talked about yeah, the inability to to truly do the the truncate of the of the text. We kind of tested that earlier, but we do have the the option to add that maybe longer secondary collection description here at the bottom. So let's go over that and see how um how that looks. Typically, we would want to This would be a a brand new section that we'll need to we'll need to add. A lot of times it's just going to be a rich text Yeah, rich text section. And we'll just get rid of the the headline, the button, and we'll leave it as a just blank piece of text in here. And then again, what we'll do here just like the other one is we'll connect a dynamic source. I already have this already set up in here, but if you don't have the bottom description, you just want to go through add a meta field. This will add a uh or open a new tab. And then all you have to do here really is just You can call it bottom description, or you can call it uh longer description. It doesn't really matter. This is just for internal purposes, just so you know what it is. And then on the type, all you want to do here is just multi-line text. And let me just double-check. You may be able to do Yeah, with the rich text you can do and I would maybe prefer instead of rich text uh or multi-line text, you can do the the rich text. And that would be [clears throat] I think a better better solution. And then that's it. Like this is all you have to do. You click save. The the thing that you you do have to do now is go to your collections. And then if we go to spring 26, we'll [snorts] see that we you have your normal descrip- description. This is the one that shows up at the top of the page. And then if we scroll down here, you'll see like the longer description. This is that the one that we just created. You can click on it. And then in here, um if we have maybe twice what we have here. So let's uh copy this and then let's make it just kind of twice as long. Um then you can do that. The the good thing about uh and what I Yeah, what I would recommend doing as rich text is that now you could within here, you could potentially talk about other things on your on your store or like maybe if you were talking about t-shirts, you can actually link the t-shirts collection right in here. And you can interlink multiple things, which again, just does a really good job of enriching the SEO experience um for for your store. So if we save this longer description, now we have actually something to showcase in here. So again, instead of typing in text, if we type in text, just know that that's going to be the same for every single collection. So what we will want to do instead is connect a dynamic source and then do that longer description that we just created. And you can see there's the two paragraphs that we just had in there. Now, I think uh with Represent, they just do a very simple Yeah, they just kind of keep it all within there. Let's see if we can make it a little bit smaller and then fill in the space. Um they do have it centered. I think they're Yeah, they're going to give me the the none. So we'll do that. And then actually we what we could do Yeah, let's let's look at maybe like adding a good left and right like a good 50 pixels and 50 pixels. I think that will at least, you know, it will stay within certain parameters and not go end to end, which that would be that may be a good idea to do up here. I don't know why I didn't think of that. But that's why we're doing this together, guys. Let's go to That was the collection headline. Oh, wait. No, that was the Yeah, the description. So left, we added that, but right, we could add a good Yeah, 50 in there. And then let's see how that Okay, yeah, we could even do more than that. What if we do What's the max? Is it 100? Yeah, let's do 100. Okay. Yeah, that actually looks a lot better. Um that way it doesn't doesn't necessarily go all the way to the end here on desktop. It kind of does anyways. Yeah, 100 is not not that much, but it looks better. I think it looks better. So we'll go we'll go with that. And then for this bottom one, um I think the only thing that I'm seeing here is just Let's see if we can get rid of some of that spacing top and bottom. Just make it a little bit tighter. And again, that's all going to be Yeah, just padding here. So let's get rid of this padding top and bottom. That didn't do much. Uh let me go see the text. No, we just have left and right. Let me just see the collection. So as you can see like a lot of times like if the collection doesn't budge, doesn't move, then look at what's above it. Maybe what's above it maybe it has a padding. And it does here, but Okay, that brought it down just a tad bit. See what else. Okay, size small. Oh, can we make it smaller? Custom height. That's what it is. Okay, there it is. Much better. All right, I'm happy with this. Let's go ahead and click save on that. Okay, um I think the other thing that I wanted to I haven't touched on is if we go to our Not here, our full collection. What they do is a load more. So they're showing us 60 products and they have a load more. We don't have that option with Horizon, but what we do have is you will at least want to maximize the products per page. So I think the maximum is going to be 36. And then the other thing that you can do here is auto-load products on scroll. Okay, I guess that automatically gets rid of the the Yeah. So I would maybe I mean, to me I think that having having the pro- like pages, it's better a better experience. And that's kind of like this is like best of both worlds, right, where like you're still kind of showing an infinite scroll, but you're kind of paginating it where you're just clicking on the load more and then it does a few more at a time, which I think it's okay. But honestly, if you want this more of this where you kind of scroll and then you see more, then I would say yeah, maybe enable that auto-load on scroll. If you want something more traditional, then I think the on clicking that and then putting the 36 as the maximum. And what that will do is it will give the customers an ability to then go to the next page to see more of the products, which I think I don't know. To me, per- this is just personal opinion, I I do think this is a little bit of a better experience than the auto-load on scroll. I wish they would give us that third option of the load more in here, cuz I think that would be I think that would be again, best of best of both worlds. And then lastly, let's see. This will be the real test with Horizon. Um if we have the ability to do that recently viewed section right above the the bottom description. So if we go here and again, we add a section. A lot of times it's just called recently viewed. It's not. It's recommended products. But I will say let's just add this recommend products and see if we have the option. Okay, so they do give us complimentary and related. So I was going to say some themes, they they still call it like recommended products, but then in the settings of that particular section, they do give you the option to then say, "Oh, this is going to be a recently viewed product." Man, they really don't have See collection. Featured collection. And yeah, just curious if we do one of these. Collection type. Nope, okay. I wonder Yeah, I wonder if there's a way to do it with the meta objects and meta fields. Honestly, don't think cuz that would be a very different type of section. Hey, worst case scenario here, let's see Let me just one more one more look here. Closest product. Yeah, this is just using the search and discovery. Either they're related or they're complimentary products, which that's not exactly what we want. So Let's a long shot here. See if we can See if we can generate this. This would be a recently viewed products section. Uh and this may be asking too much. I don't know the functionality of the recently viewed. Like if they don't have it as a section, I don't know if little sidekick will be able to pull this together, but let's let's see. We may be We may be surprised here. Okay, so I mean, it has the right headline. No recently viewed product for the empty state. Maximum products to track eight. Okay, it's the only way to fully test this. Let's just save this and see. This guys, if this works and that prompt I put in there 1 2 3, that's a four four-word prompt and if it did what we think it's doing, let's do the let's do the preview. Ah, this is it's not going to show me the right thing. Hold on. Let me see. Let me see if I can make this make this work. So, how do I do this? Okay, yeah. Let me exit out of here. Sometimes that happens where when you click on the preview of the Horizon, but the preview that loaded was the preview for the current version of the theme. So, sometimes you have to go through here and click preview and then yeah, this will show you. Now, I don't think I have Okay, so yeah, let me let me let me fix a couple things here on the homepage so that it goes to the spring 26. Let me just change one of these buttons so that it goes directly there. So, it just makes our life a little bit easier. Collections, let's do spring 26. Let's click save. Let's go back to this preview. Refresh. Okay. Okay. No recently viewed products, but we just viewed this one and then let's go back to the homepage. Back over here. Nah. Sorry, guys. Couldn't pull it off. Nope. So, maybe it was too much for for Sidekick to do. And that's the thing like I think Sidekick is great for the It's great for those the visual, right? The the the visual elements and the aesthetic portion of it. But when it comes to like fully changing functionality of how the theme and everything works, that's where yeah, it starts to starts to show its limitations. So, yeah, we didn't we didn't get that that section. Now, I will say, I know I know we're trying to recreate uh Horizon or Represent with a Horizon theme, but and again, we're trying to stay with like a a free budget in here. Obviously, there's going to be apps that can do that. So, if you truly want that functionality, then you may have to end up using an app. But if you don't want to use an app and you still want to showcase something, which I I think again, if you have 20 30 I don't know, even if you have five different types of products, right? T-shirts, hoodies, sweatshirts, hats, belts, like I think it would be Maybe we don't do the recently viewed, but you can still merchandise your product in here. So, I think that would be a a great alternative to maybe not having that where yeah, maybe we do a section like this like this collection list carousel and we're just highlighting the t-shirts, sweatshirts, hoodies in a visual manner, right? Cuz like maybe you have it on the on the navigation, right? Maybe you're like, "World Christian, I already have it in my navigation, t-shirts, hoodies, whatever." Yeah, but that's just a piece of text, right? The chances of someone clicking on that piece of text is probably going to be low comparing it to Okay, now we're showcasing yeah, hoodies, but now we have an image of what some of the hoodies could look like. We have t-shirts and what the t-shirts could look like, sweatshirts and what the sweatshirts could look like. So, I think this would be a very good thing to do on the actual collection page. Like yeah, I'm looking at these products and then I get all the way to the bottom and it's like, "Oh wait, I got all the way to the bottom for a reason, right? Maybe I wasn't interested in some of the things that I was seeing, but maybe something else catches my eye down here." And I think that's the power of of if you were in a physical store, a physical location, this would be the equivalent of I'm holding an item in my hand and I look left to right and I see a table with more items. I see another clothing rack over there and maybe some things that catch my attention. The same thing that you want to do here. It's just merchandise your product and and have it show up in multiple places throughout your store. Anyways, I hope you enjoyed doing this as much as as much as I did. I think we had a a little bit too much fun here. And we we tested Sidekick. We pushed it to its limit its limits. Again, simple prompts, right? But so we we kind of have a good idea of what the limitations are. Let me just recap what we just covered. Strategy one was the layout, full-width hero images, four-column grid, no sidebar, consistent product photography, and a minimal classable filter bar. Strategy two was the product card system, hover image swap, inline quick add sizes, color variant indicators, clean information architecture, no clutter, strategic badges for restocked items and bundles. And strategy three was the collection level content, brand storytelling in the descriptions, load more pagination, a loyalty call to action embedded below the grid, and recently viewed items for returning visitors. None of this requires a developer. None of it requires any paid apps. It's all about understanding what premium brands are doing and just reverse engineering it and using the tools that Shopify already gives you. Now, if you want us to do this for your brand, the strategy, the audit, the rebuild, you can book a free strategy call. Link is in the description. Again, we work exclusively with clothing brands and we'd love to help you level up. And if you got value from this, make sure that you hit subscribe. I'd love to do these breakdowns on Represent. We've already already done two or three videos and we're going to keep rebuilding Represent. I think the next video is going to be more on the cart and checkout experience. So, we'll see you on the next one.