Welcome back to the second video of this course playlist. And in the first one, we talked about the new methodology of giving your prompt a backstory, giving the agent a full life to deal with in all of its messiness. And we showed the proof of it. We showed that when you install more context, and not context in the systematic way that people think about where you're lining out the different details like you're a systems analyst with 15 years experience, etc., But you start getting into an actual narrative where this system analyst not only has 15 years experience, but their divorce with two kids and a dog named Rusty. And we go through their entire life or some of it and we begin to make it more full, then the results just seem to exponentially get better. And specifically in that video, we looked at a CFO named Maya Chin and how it compared to a regular prompt without the narrative. And then we even looked at how it compared when we changed the backstory of the fictional character. And so if you haven't watched that video, then I highly recommend that you go back and watch that first video so that you can have some context for some of the things we're going to be discussing in this video. That was the proof, but now I'm going to show you how to do this on a regular basis. And again, this is more of an art form than it is a science. But there's still some logic and order even behind creativity. And that's a topic for another day. But I want to talk to you today about the fourth and final layer that I believe most agents are actually missing that will transform the outputs that you get from them or that will transform the outputs you get from any AI or automated system when it comes to content that they're producing or output that they're performing. I came about this discovery when I created Aar Vance. Now Vance was not real. She was just a persona, a personality that I created for a copywriting agent that I was creating. And just like all of my personas that I create for agents, she had an age, she had a role, she had a voice, she had a backstory, etc. And Vance was a product of my Makoshi project. All of this research was being done around the same time. Here we are inside of my chat GPT project for Aar Vance. And you can see the source files here. There's a personality profile dated June 15, 2025. And you can't backdate these. I've been doing this for almost a year now. And I just want you to understand when I share what I'm sharing, this comes from me experimenting with this for almost a year before I'm finally sharing these ideas with the public. And the same thing is true about my Makoshi project. If you come and look, you can see that the files are dated July 6, 2025. But this is Makoshi version 7. There were six previous versions to this because I had already been dealing with this in the months prior. When most people think about LLMs, they think about large language models. But when I think about LLM, I think about logic, library, memory, because those are the first three components of every agent, every workflow that I build. I didn't know there were agents then. I was just playing with AI. But it's the logic, it's the steps, then it's the library, it's the tools, but then it's memory because agents need to remember what they did, how they did it. They need to be able to recall information where they're working with you and help you get results faster. But then something I discovered was the P, the persona. So it's LLMP, logic, library, memory, persona. And persona is probably the most important one. I don't know why exactly, but I think it helps the model pay attention to what matters the most because of the backdrop, because of the story. And again, if you haven't watched the first video, go back and do so so you can have more context for what I'm sharing now. And just to give you a little backdrop, the whole idea of Makoshi came about from Cyberpunk 2077. And basically, a makoshi is a portable shrine that enhouses a deity. And inside of this video game, a makoshi was a place where they store constructs. And it's the digitized uh mind of a person. And I started thinking about how could I capture the intelligence of AI around a particular topic and maintain that state because we know how AI typically goes up and down and it fluctuates with the quality of responses and execution of workflows. And that's when I began to experiment and standardize step-by-step logic, libraries, memory, persona, all of these different things that I was just experimenting with. And the architecture is very simple. It's logic. This is what governs the work. It's library. This is what we can draw from. These are the tools, the templates and knowledge base and everything else you could think of. And then there's the memory. This is how it actually remembers and recalls specific details. Not the memory that Open AI, Claude or Gemini gives you, but your own personal memory base with its own tagging system. so it can pull back relevant memories when it needs them and not have to read through everything you've ever recorded because none of the memory systems that are being provided right now are going to hold up long term but the memory system that I've created will. Something I discovered through my experiments and I showed in the last video is that the results before the persona, they're technically accurate, but they look, they read, they sound just like everybody else's. There's nothing special about them. it's just good enough. And that's the thing about AI. It always gives you a response that's just good enough. It's never going to try to give you the best answer. It's almost as though there's a default level and it's always going to go to that floor every single time. And so, I think that what was missing is actually personality profiles. And when you begin to add personality profiles to your agents, it is going to absolutely revolutionize the type of outputs that you receive back. And and I think this is part of what makes Claude so special because Claude is not the actual large language model that Anthropic serves. Claude is a personality on top of the large language model that you're interacting with. And in the same way that Claude is a personality profile, and I don't know how detailed Anthropic has created their personality profile for Claude, I don't know if it has a backstory. I don't know all the details about it. I have not seen their system prompt. I don't know any of that. I just know that it's a layer on top of their large language model. But I always wonder how would it impact the performance of an agent if it had an identity, its own identity. Not act as a social media manager, not act as a YouTube channel manager, not act as a business consultant, but actually this is who you are. This is your identity. And as much as people like to talk about markdown files as being glorified, markdown files like it's uh there's some other special type of documentation that it sells or supersedes them. These are large language models. It doesn't matter if it's Python, if it's C++ or any other coding language or if it's just plain English or any other language on the planet in a markdown file or any other type of format. It's a language. So there are no languages that are more preferred than the other. English is just as good as C++ with a large language model. That's the beauty of it. And some people from the old establishment just can't stomach that just yet. But all you need is a markdown file, something that you can create using basic English. And so what I wrote was not a prompt. It was a life document. It was almost like a small biography. They had an identity. They had a backstory where she came from, family profile of the pressures that she endured, her early work, her struggles and achievements. She had a world view. She had a voice. And if my memory serves me right, I believe I wanted her to speak like Claire Hutable. So the logic, the library are obviously more important than anything else. There are plenty of videos and playlists on my channel that cover why. Then the memory and then finally the personality profile was installed on top of that. It's almost like a booster pack that just improves the performance of the logic in the library. It just makes the output so much better. And so the persona doesn't replace any of the other layers of context. It doesn't replace the logic. It doesn't replace the library or any of that process. It does not replace the memory and recall. It sits on top of everything and almost envelops everything. And if thinking about it as a layer is not helpful, it may be more helpful to think about it as a container. Create a marketing asset as quickly as you can that sells a dress to women 25 to 35 that they can wear for an evening out. And this is the marketing asset that regular chat GPT 5.5, which is a great model, extended thinking created. And so beautiful image, made for the night out, flattering fit, effortless confidence, your go-to dress for dinner, drinks, and everything after. Sleek silhouette, comfortable stretch, day toight polish. Shop now. This is good. And you could take this image and you could you could even program this button to add a link to your website, too. But that's a topic for another day. But now, let's look at the marketing asset that Vance created. and she has uh more background, more backstory, uh more sophistication. And I want you to notice the subtle differences in the images that were generated, the assets. In the first image, you can see the building right here. In the second image, you can see nothing but the city. You can also see that there is a collection name given right here. This is elevating the quality of the dress. I believe just my personal opinion. The women almost look identical in this first photograph. Chat GPT has her looking at the title made for the night out. In this one, she's looking away almost like she's looking at someone across the room or it just gives a different vibe. Your go-to dress for the night out, made for the night out. You can see that this one has a lot more thought into the actual title. And then when we get to the paragraph, it's almost identical. Flattering fit, effortless confidence. Made for dinners, date nights, and rooftop drinks. Look at the first one. Flattering fit, effortless confidence. Your go-to dress for dinners, drinks, and everything after. Almost identical, but look at the paragraph. It's just a run-on paragraph. That's all it is. But this time with Vance, same model. It took the time to actually place the lines or place the sentences on their own lines. And then once again, that's it. We get here to the images. Sleek silhouette, comfortable stretch, day toight polish. These are features, right? Look at this one. Feels as good as it looks. I'll tell you right now which one looks more like a high-end uh dress or marketing asset. And it's the second one. As an example of what I'm talking about, this is Prada.com. This floral print silken wool dress is $6,500. And the page does not have a lot of copy. It's very clean. And even when we look at the product details, you can still see that it's very clean. They're not worry about it. They're not trying to sell you benefits. They're just telling you what it is. Sheath, dress fit, lined, strapless neckline, back zipper closure, center back slit, straight hem, imported the height of the model, material, and then contact us. That's it. They're not trying to sell it like sleek silhouette, comfortable stretch, day toight polish. They don't have to tell people that about their dresses because they're a luxury brand. They don't have to go out their way to say, "Oh, this is good." When it is good and people know it's good, you don't have to say that. And so, when you look at this one, whether you know it or not, it's actually the more sophisticated highquality marketing asset. The closest that we get to trying to sell this dress at all or sell its quality is feels as good as it looks. And even then, it's spun back around to how it looks. Like, how does this dress look on her and how's it going to look on you? So, we see that a basic model versus a model with a personality is going to give you drastically different results. And that was just one example, but by all means, test this out for yourself after watching this video. go back and watch the first video and then try it as well. But now, let's get back to the four layers. And so, we have our logic, our library, our memory, and then we have our persona. I'm going to pin to a playlist right here that I want you to go check out, but it has all of my videos about the logic and library method before I was naming it that that started back with chat GPT projects. And you can learn about the workflow, the rules, and how to extract them, how to know what to get, the library, the templates, examples, references, and files so that there are examples. So, it's it's fot prompting on everything it does. It it knows the way to actually work and get the job done so that there's quality control every single time. And then the memory. Now listen, you can go and learn all of the stuff from that playlist if you want to. But if you want access to my kit builder mats, that's going to help you build your own plugins and skills and also access to my memory OS that's going to give you memory for your entire Claude account. Then click the link in the description. You can get access to it. They're bonuses inside of my content engine kit for now. They're not going to be bonuses forever, but you can get them as bonuses for now when you purchase that kit. But watch that playlist, watch all of those videos, take notes and study it, and you can learn all of this information for free. Now, the persona is the installed life. This is the thing that actually makes the difference. The reason I think that a persona makes such a huge difference when it comes to context engineering is because there is no better way to capture a rich depth of life or rich depth of context than by describing human life. And this is what I mean. You can take 500 characters of specs and you can take those same 500 characters of specs and take those same specs and then you can write them in narrative form and get better results with the narrative. And I stated this in the first video, but narrative transportation plays a big part of that. But when you write a persona, you're not just naming the model. You're not just saying, "Hey, your name is Matthew. This is who you are." No, you're describing a worldview which implies a value system which implies decisions. And so the model fills in everything you didn't have to write, but you give it this container, you give it this context, and then it just takes the results to a different level. So, there's two ways to actually install one of these personas, and we've discussed one of them where we create our own markdown file that we upload, and then we have the router prompt reference that markdown file in uh a certain place in the workflow. Maybe it's the first thing it references, maybe it's the last thing it references. That's your choice. Now, if it's steady state and you upload this in the workspace, then it's persistent across conversation. is they're stronger consistency, better for real systems, ideal for day-to-day use, and it takes setup, but then it compounds over time because the thing about setting these up in workspaces is the fact that they just get better, right? The memory helps them get better. You can rewrite them. You can fine-tune things. Now, a second way is if you're just doing some quick work and you just want a quick output that's better than what you would normally get from a system, then you can do it inside the prompt. Now, when you do it this way, it's disposable. It's fast to test. It lives only in that conversation. It's best for just one-off experiences, and there's no setup required. So, you might be doing a prompt, and you might just do it in real time. I've deleted both conversations so that we can't be tainted by the image that was generated. And I'm just going to freestyle a prompt here and give a little bit of backstory and see if it can create something that's better or just as good as the previous one. Create a marketing asset that sells a dress for women 25 to 35 that they can wear for evening out. You are a graphic designer who grew up in the inner city of Chicago. You struggled in high school. You dropped out of high school. Uh you were in several uh bad relationships, but you finally found your way when you found your passion for design. Um in addition to that, you've worked at several small firms before moving up to middle management. You like to drink mockta on the weekends. You love going for walks with your dog and you love going to the gym on a daily basis. You're very fit. Uh you read a book uh once a month. You like reading self-help books and your mom calls you all the time annoying you. Your dad calls you every so often, but he's supportive. They love the direction you're going in your life. You have two brothers and three sisters and you're the oldest child. They all look up to you. They're proud of you for what you're doing in life. and you're thinking about starting your own business next year or maybe even just uh going in going back to school or doing something that you haven't done with your life. Almost like you're about to go into a midlife crisis, but not necessarily. So, you're just kind of confused about where you want to go with your future. But either way, you got work to do. So, create a marketing asset. I just came up with all of that off the top of my head. Not trying to be too crazy or too wild with it, but just giving her a life. And so you can see that the majority of what I said has absolutely no bearing apparently on the marketing asset or the task that we're asking the agent to perform. Like the details about her family, where she was born at Chicago, like what she likes to do, walk her dog, what she likes to drink at Starbucks or whatever. None of that should have any bearing on the task of creating a marketing asset. But what I've been finding is that somehow these backstories create this environment, a container where the models focus more or focus in a different way, it seems, cuz I I can't look at them on the inside, but they focus in a different way that creates a better output. Now, we have the third asset, and I'll be the first to admit that I actually think that this one falls in between the first two. And so this one has things like design for you, timeless elegance, made to stand out. That hanger right there, that screaming commodity. I don't like it at all. Uh satin finish, flattering fit, evening ready. These are all good. The dress made for dinner, cocktails, and unforgettable entrances on the night. Nor Avenue. This was all good. Even Avenue lounge being seen right here. And we also get a steady state of the character. So this was actually pretty good. much better than the first image, but I still don't think it was better than the one with the uh tailored backstory. And something I'll say right here, I acknowledge that a lot of this is going to be subjective. So, it's going to be based on what you think, which is why I encourage you to test this out and let me know how it works for you. I want to see how it works for you. So, if you're following along with the workbook that I'm going to put with this course, I'm definitely going to put a workbook with it. If you scroll down in the description, you should see a section that says files. There will be a link there. You don't have to put your email in. You don't have to do anything. You just click the link and it opens up the document from my Google Drive. You can open it in Google Drive or open it in Chrome. Either one, it works. And follow along and learn this method. start building out backstories for your agents or for your workflows and tell me how they perform. Tell me if it increases the performance or the quality of the output. But that's one of the quickest ways for you to do a transistory installation. Now, I can delete that conversation and I don't have to worry about it anymore. But if I really like that output, I might say, "You know what? I'm going to try to take this backstory, polish it, and formalize it so I can reuse it over and over for a visual designer that I have or something like that. And so, start with a small persona inside of a prompt like I just did. Run a real task and compare the output. If you like it, like I said, move it into a workspace, refine it, make it more detailed, build on top of it. But this is how you find the ones that you're actually going to use long term. And like I said, there's going to be a workbook. Scroll down to the file section, click the link, and you can download the workbook, and it's going to walk you through building one yourself step by step. Now, the first thing you have to decide on, and again, this is all subjective. There are no objective standards. This is more art than science. There's science to it, but it's still more art. I'm going to say it's about 65% art, 35% science. So, whatever name you want to give this persona, that's up to you. Anthropic did not have to name their model claw. They could have named it Matthew or Melissa. The age, give it an age. It's a useful constraint, but it's not a random detail. Location, their craft, their role, their domain, what they're good at. But above all, make sure you add the backstory because the backstory is where I'm finding the magic. Now, when it comes to the backstory, yes, you want to cover where did they come from, what shaped how they think, what work made them good, what do they value because of that history, but most importantly is number five. What messy human details make them real? If you noticed in my example when I did the transistory installation, I was just trying to think of stuff that a normal person would do, like walking their dog or going to the gym or reading books. You just want to make certain that you create a real person, even if it's fictional. Or, hear me out, you can take a real person, strip away their personal identifiable information, and then use that persona. It works either way. I've tried them all. They all work. And some key details you might want to add when you're trying to think about what messy human details are going to make them real are things like family pressures, struggles, achievements, contradictions, relationships, fears, taste, personality, what they overcame, etc. Then you want to start laying out their voice. Is it domain specific, tactile specific? What's their vocabulary? What's their cadence? What's their forbidden phrases? What is the texture? So this is going to be things like never use discover, never use unlock or experience. They prefer short lines and sentence fragments etc. And then we have their world view. These are going to be the things that pull them in certain directions. This is how they approach thinking through problems and solutions. I can take two different people with two different world views and give them the same problem and the results you get will be completely different. they're going to reach completely different audiences. So, if I was marketing a product and I do market products, then I would try to think about who my audience is and if I was creating a persona for a marketing agent, then that persona would be generated in a fashion that the marketing assets to copy whatever they create is going to appeal to that audience, not to some other audience. When it comes to building your own AI agents, there are several different ways to do it. And some people make it far more complicated than it needs to be. There are people who build them inside of claw code and they're going to tell you that's the right way and the best way and the only way. But there are a lot of people who don't use claw code or who want to be able to do things visually. And for you, I tell you, you can easily install these inside of chat GPT projects, chat GPT agents if you have a workspace account, especially chat GPT agents because they have built-in memory, custom GPTs. You can also use codeets because you can use claw projects. You can use claw skills and claude plugins and those skills and plugins are easily convertible to codeex skills and plugins. Ask me how I know. You can also do this using notebook LM because of Gemini notebooks and you can even use other AI workspaces like Grock projects and so forth. There are a number of ways you just need somewhere to store your logic custom instructions and your library. If your primary instructions for your skill do not fit inside of the custom instructions because of the character limit, then place a router prompt there and place your custom instructions in the library. And essentially what you're going to say is whenever a conversation starts, find this file, read it, and then treat that as your system prompt for the duration of the conversation. And from there, it'll start pulling other files and folders and and prompts and stuff. But you can upload these anywhere. It's all a matter of having that persona embedded into that router prompt and or the custom instructions so that it knows, okay, this is my personality. You have to make certain that the model knows this is the personality and it has access to that backstory and that contest. And so I want you to stop right now and actually run a test just like I did before. And then I want you to notice if there are any changes. And so if you're watching the video, just pause right now and test it out and then come back to the video. And I'll place a small pause here for you to go do that. So hopefully you were able to see the differences in the results just because of that context that you gave it. And any context is going to be better than no context. So, you're really going to have to experiment with this more so that you can truly see the value of it for yourself. But a few things I want to share with you before we round this up. Number one, you're not telling the model what to do. You're telling it what world it's in. You're telling it, hey, this is the planet you're on. This is the environment you're in. And sometimes I know people who give the model context of not even being on the planet. they they're using their AI systems for uh recreation and their model is not even on planet Earth, right? And so it's changing the output. The model will adapt to whatever context you give it. I want you to be creative with this. And I want you to take on a mindset that you don't have to listen to what someone says you ought to do or should do with AI. It's literally bounded only by your creative limitations. So, if you have an idea, don't look to me or someone else to tell you if it's possible. Run it by Claude. Run it by chat GPT and and start working with them to see if you can build this or make this a reality because that's when you start to experience the real magic. That's when you start finding out things like, hey, adding a persona to my agents actually increases the quality and the accuracy of the outputs. And specifically what happened with the advance is that the copy that was written went from generic to distinct. It went from broad to tactile, from neutral bias to opinionated. The rhythm went from flat to a human cadence. And the output went from technically accurate to a recognizable voice. It was the same model, but they were living in a different world. They had a different identity. They had a persona. They had a personality. And that's what's missing from almost every model and every agent except Claw. This is why Claude, I believe, is so much better than the other models or at least why everyone feels as though it's so much better than the other models because it truly is subjective a lot of times. But the whole method is this, summed up into five parts. Identify who they are. Write them a backstory that shape them. Create a worldview that captures what they believe. Give them a voice so we know how they sound and install. Put them where they live. Is it going to be something transistory that you're testing to see if it works or is this something longterm? Then in that case, you want to write up a full document that captures their life. Install it. It's something that runs in the background, too. You're not going to see the details of their life come out of the outputs. It's just reading it and giving it context. Claw never talks about his personality when it responds to you. and you want to build yours and write it into your instructions in the same way. And if you want to build your first one today, then all you need to do is download the workbook, define the identity, write the backstory, test the output. When you find one that you like, start take that one, set it to the side, forget about the others, and start building on top of it. In the next video, I'm going to show you what happens with AI when you take your own life and you upload it not necessarily as a persona, which might be a cool idea, but you add it as a layer of context so that whenever Claude is working through a problem, it's working through the problem, understanding the constraints and limitations of my personal life so that all the responses are tailored to me and the world I live in, which has given me just the utmost leverage in using Clawude AI on a daily basis because I don't have to reexlain the most important things that matter to me and that matter to why I use AI. If you got value out of this video, make sure you hit the like button, subscribe to the channel, hype it, stay tuned for the third installment of this course, and make sure you download the workbook, work through it, and as always, take care, have a great day, and I'll see you in the next