You could spend an awful lot of money trying to improve something that seems important but which nobody deep down ever cares about. Meanwhile, there are vastly cheaper solutions which could be game-changing. >> He's the author of Alchemy, The Dark Art, and Curious Science of Creating Magic in Brands, Business, and Life. >> He's the only guy that I've ever heard swear in a TED talk. God damn. Who is this guy? Rory Sutherland. Hello. Hell yeah. One of the saddest things I always notice is [music] businesses that are very very good businesses but they fail because they get one perceptual element wrong. Finance people fetishize costsaving and automation. I would argue that frontline service jobs are actually [music] crucial to the future of the economy because most sort of theories around messaging use what you might call the transmission [music] model of how do you get this information from originator to eyeball as inexpensively as possible. What they're not thinking about is what goes on behind the eyeball once that message is received. Do you feel like in today's world the consumers are just overly sensitive? There's a problem we got here, which is that quick pause, guys. I need to tell you something. It's that time of the year where everyone's on the winter arc hype where they're building their physique, which they plan to reveal at some point in the summer of 2026. But I hate to be the guy that says it, [music] most of you are going to end up getting fat. You'll be overeating. You'll be following some sort of a program which isn't actually going to be getting your results. You're going to be improvising on the spot. No doubt. You won't be tracking. There'll be no structure. Just random exercises with minimal progress seen on a week- toeek [music] basis. Pretty frustrating, right? Well, that's the whole reason why I built the first app, to help busy people like yourself find a system they can actually stick to over a long period of time. We have thousands of transformations from men and women who just plug into the app, get the exact plan they need for their goals, show up to the gym, and just put in the work, all for less than an hour of their time. You get [music] access to over hundreds of programs and hundreds of different meal plans. Everything which you could possibly need to get yourself in shape. So, if you actually want to stick to something and see results without taking things to the absolute extremities, click the [music] link in the bio. Let's get on with the video. Rory, welcome to the show. >> Absolute joy to be here. Real pleasure. Yeah. >> I wanted to start off by talking about the world of branding and in particular, one that's quite fascinating for me is how personal branding has become a lot more of a thing compared to the past and how a lot of founders and CEOs are focusing on building their own personal brand. Is this because they're doing it as a vanity thing where they're trying to build their status or are they actually doing it because it helps the business that they founded or are running? I would argue that even when we're doing business with highly automated or online business that there's still an element to us which is judging businesses as if they were people. >> Mhm. And I'd also argue that in encounters with businesses, the face-toface or the human to human tends to trump in terms of your perception of that business. The immediate experience of, you know, human interaction um tends to outweigh an importance in your mind, you know, other factors. Now, you know, obviously I'm not suggesting that just by being really charming face to face, you can have an absolutely crap product and charge charge an insane amount of money for it. But one of the things I think that will happen uh is that um in businesses as AI becomes more and more prevalent in terms of the interactions we have those now rarer cases of personal service or personal interaction become actually more precious to us and more decisive in terms of how we think and so I mean it's interesting in a way that you know you know a lot of businesses if particular family-owned businesses, they have their name above the door. >> In some ways, if I feel that the person behind the business, whether it's a Dyson or a Branson, effectively has reputational skin in the game, uh I would argue that I can trust that business, I think, rather more than I can one which is effectively hiding behind a whole load of uh screens. you know, you know, the sort of pmpkin village model of a business where, you know, the facade looks lovely but everything behind it doesn't really exist. >> And so, I mean, one of the most interesting things that happened is that in the IPA effectiveness awards in 2024, four out of the five gold winners were family-owned businesses. Um, and I'm starting to notice that for a whole host of reasons, family-owned businesses are better at building brands than PLC's are because they have the time frame. They arguably have the kind of, you know, I suppose they, you know, they they have one eye on posterity. Um, but also they're focused on their customers rather than being focused on their shareholders. >> Yeah. And you might argue there are a hell of a lot of businesses where the chief executive has a very strong um personal brand but they spend their time building it in the investor and shareholder community not among the public or their customers or their consumers. >> Yeah. Now I mean but this whole thing which is a sort of disintermediation of people in a way um you know it it it's massively important in journalism because previously if you think about it the newspaper brand had the strength that got the eyeballs and then if you're an individual star columnist within it you would get pretty large rewards you know for your effectively your convening power your pulling power. Mhm. >> But it was already starting to become clear, I think, to rockstar journalists that do do you actually need the intervening newspaper brand if I can just be a columnist brand uh on in my own right. And yeah, they they they do need each other, but the balance of power has shifted. >> Yeah. Um and so but no so I think I think that question by the way by the way it's also worth noting that there's a change in expectation and by the way that also applies not just to the relationship say a chief executive would have with the customers but also with the staff which is you know 20 30 years ago you know it wasn't possible effectively for your chief executive to make a 20inut address to the staff and put it on broadcast TV. M >> now in an age of YouTube and also where not only can that content be either widely or narrowly cast uh that but also viewed at a time of the viewers's convenience our expectation of openness has just changed. >> Yeah. you know, and and uh you know, consequently, I mean, it used to happen the form it used to take 20, 30 years ago is you'd have these massive conventions where you get loads of staff into a football stadium or something like that and, you know, there'd be a kind of, you know, big company jamboree. Now, you can now do that digitally and people kind of expect it in a way they didn't expect the the former version. >> Yeah. Is there anyone in particular you think is doing a really good job of it at the moment? Yeah, I well I think um you know I think we tend to personify businesses and I think also that when we judge a business we tend to in a way what Daniel Carneaman used to call often what we do in our brains is we substitute an easy question for a difficult question. So we create a kind of proxy question. So if you're buying a house for example, if you're buying a secondhand car, you probably don't know that much about cars. And so the question you ask instead is do I trust the person selling it? >> Yes. And it's not a lot of people would say that's an irrational thing to do. It's not entirely because we've got you know half a million years of evolved experience in spotting untrustworthy or trustworthy people. Whereas we don't have any innate evolved experience in evaluating cars unless we've got an engineering degree or trained with the RAAC or something like that. And so quite often the decisions we make about businesses are you know not in other words the easy question is maybe not is you know can I completely trust this but are the people likable and we'll use likability as a proxy. >> Yeah. Um, and so it's something that, yeah, if you can do it well, the the the the story I always love about this, which always fascinates me, there's a wonderful guy called Alex Bachelor who used to be the marketing director of Royal Mail. And at the time they'd spent an absolute fortune improving their operational efficiency and reliability and so forth and noticed absolutely no change in consumer attitude despite a lot of money spent uh trying to actually instigate operational improvements. And Alex Bachelor said I think I know where this is and he set out to test his theory. And it turned out that by far the biggest determinant of people's attitude to Royal Mail as a brand came down to one thing only, whether they like their posty. And so, you know, even if, to be honest, the service was a bit sporadic. >> Post never came on a Wednesday. If the posty was the kind of person who went, I knew you're on holiday, so I popped it in the back porch. You basically thought that was the best service in the history of the world. And equally, you could have a really reliable next day by 8 a.m. service, but if your post was a grumpy bastard, you basically didn't like Royal M. So that understanding of the extent to which you know preferences particularly with service brands I think I think with a service brand one of the things I repeatedly argue is there shouldn't be people in your call center paid six figures because the very very best call center staff that they're typically experienced they're also unusually talented have an amazing opportunity to create a what there's one American agency calls it a brand quake In other words, you may take someone who at the moment they ring is actually angry and you can turn them from an angry likely defector in a single conversation into a brand evangelist or a brand advocate. >> Now, I need to do we need more research on this. I mean, I believe it to be kind of anecdotally true. >> There's certainly a lot of evidence that weirdly a disgruntled customer handled well turns out to be more loyal than if the problem had never occurred in the first place. But understanding what the heristics and what the kind of the proxy questions consumers are asking when they decide whether or not to buy your product is really really important because otherwise you could do what Royal Mail did. You could spend an awful lot of money trying to improve something that seems important but which nobody deep down ever cares about. Meanwhile, there are vastly cheaper solutions. Eg. you send your 5% of grumpiest posties off to charm school or something uh which could be gamechanging and and and what one of the saddest things I always notice is businesses that are very very good businesses but they fail because they get one perceptual element wrong. Didn't you say something about the uh the Euro Star? How I think the engineers wanted to spend like six billion to >> That was me. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. >> Speed up by 40 minutes when you were saying they could literally just take a fraction of that money to >> I came into London Bridge station this morning on a network of train. They're horrible. I [ __ ] hate them. They're the ones where you get three of breast seats. I mean >> you know the people who you know who tag [ __ ] on the outside? That's me to be honest. I hate them so much. You know, if you go into the toilet in your network of train and basically there's just obscenity scrolled all over the wall. That's probably me as well because I really really hate them. And the reason I hate them is partly three of breast seating is just horrible. If you're sitting in the middle, you know, you you know, it's sort of pervoly weird. >> Yeah. >> But they don't have any [ __ ] tables. Now, I had a whole article to write this morning. I had emails to do. I've got a bloody laptop in my bag that I carry with me. I spend 35 minutes on that train being completely useless effectively. >> Yeah. >> Simply now you can get a budget in a rail company to you know increase you know reduce journey time by 4.7 minutes and the bloody treasury will give you a stack of money because that's timesaving. But for the sake of just a table or you know and the odd cup holder you turn a productive enjoyable journey into a horrible useless journey. So it actually didn't waste 4 minutes of my time. It wasted, you know, 25 minutes of my time. >> And so that utter failure to understand that the metrics that exist within businesses are often completely misaligned with what the customers of those businesses really care about. And I mean an awful lot of this by the way is you know finance people fetishize costsaving and automation because it appears to bring cost cuts and they think this will either you know go straight on the bottom line or can be reduced to you know can be used to reduce price. Those people aren't held accountable for the consumers or customers who disappear because they wanted a personal service. And you know, I I would argue that frontline service jobs are actually crucial to the future of the economy because as more and more of the boring stuff gets automated, it's precisely providing that human interface, you know, whether it's problem solving, sometimes it's just simply being seriously charming. >> Yeah. Which actually is what people are paying for. I mean, if you think about it, okay, a farmer's market is the stupidest economic conception in the world because you buy direct from the producer, but you pay a premium for it. And I suspect there are two reasons for it. One of them is delusional, which is because you're making six purchases of 9 quid, you're not conscious of spending that much money. Whereas, if you go to Tesco and and spend what 54 quid or whatever it is, no. Yeah. 54 quid. That was a bit expensive. >> Yeah. >> Part of it, I think, is just delusion. But part of it is we like the theater and the attention and the interaction because we've evolved for half a million years craving those things and probably they're grotesqually lacking from our lives in many cases. >> Yeah. >> You know, just that nice little exchange. There's a wonderful Chinese proverb. If you find it difficult to smile, do not open a shop. [laughter] And and understanding where you really crap value. In other words, what it is that people value about you. And so Dyson and and Branson are probably the two best examples um of this. Um there are also brands which are you know which are obviously not personified by the CEO themselves but they have a kind of spokesperson. >> Yeah. >> You I mean the genius of Howard for the Halifax for example. >> Mhm. >> You know uh it it's the person as an embodiment of the brand. >> Yeah. they could never really find anybody who who could replace him in a weird kind of way. >> Um and um you know understanding that in a way we instinctively will choose to judge the personal because it's a lot easier and we're better at it than than judging the technical. >> And it's it's a brilliant shortcut question. We've got limited time. We got limited cognitive resources and we don't have you know we can't spend our time every time we buy a coffee machine researching you know the engineering of of you know of each individual machine. So what we effectively do is we go you know this person this salesperson seems basically pretty likable and straight. I think they would suffer some degree of shame from making a dodgy recommendation to me and therefore I'm happy to go with what they recommend. And there are certain categories I think which are very high trust because we don't know much about the category itself. I'll give you an example. If [clears throat] you went to say Richard Sands or you go to a specialtity photography shop, the what you might call the professional expertise of those people is a kind of badge of honor for them. It's, you know, it's part of their identity. >> Yeah. They're proud. And so someone I always remember someone in a in a camera shop some sort of relatives of mine who to be honest were fairly minted but in their 70s went in and we're going to buy kind of 900 camera and the guy at Macy asked them a lot of questions realized that there was no way they were going to make use of even 4% of the capabilities of this camera and down sold them. Now why on earth would you do this? you know, commission would suffer. But his effective some part of his pride and identity is vested in his, you know, in this case it was a his actually probably down the shops. It quite often is um his ability to give the right advice and not to actually misdirect someone. >> Mhm. >> You could also argue that in terms of lifetime value, he may be making a very good decision because, you know, there's one thing to make an immediate, you know, maxed out sale. There's another thing to create enough customer satisfaction that they come back to you for your next cam their next camera. >> Yeah, I'll tell you who's done a very good job of this is uh at least for me anyway, they've completely got me. It's Emirates cuz I I now >> what the Jennifer Anderson thing. >> No, no, no, not not necessarily the uh the adverts themselves, but the experience I have every time I fly with them. >> Yeah. Like it's it's so good that sometimes I mean this is when I've I mean fortunately I've traveled a few times first class >> if the flight is less than 7 hours. I'm actually annoyed because I want the flight to be longer so that I can experience the whole thing where I can eat all the food if it's an overnight flight then you can have the shower. >> Yeah. >> It's like it's a full-on amazing experience. motor homeing. We don't you know actually you know you you no long you could have prefabricated housing which you could basically and Elon's doing this of course because he's he's also got a he's got a tiny home business he's got a solar business uh he's got a Starlink business he's you know got a battery business you know my my secret theory about Elon is that in a kind of James Bond villain way his plan is to tank the housing market by making it possible for a factory just to produce perfectly attractive homes homes where you could temporarily plonk anywhere. >> Mhm. I think that'd be quite popular. >> No, no. So do I. Yeah. And I I think there's a, you know, I I mean, the fact that we still build homes as if it's 1640, you know, from the foundations up rather than pre-fabricating them offsite is like one of the weirdest technological failings when you think about it. I mean, ship building is modular. Everything else you build in a modular fashion. >> Mhm. I I I won't name the venue, but I thought it was brilliant. This was yesterday, one of my favorite cafes, and I chat endlessly to the person who runs the cafe because you learn so much from uh hospitality about marketing. And her absolute thing is she refuses to serve soup. So, it does wonderful kind of brunch food, you know, eggs benedict and goodness, you know, wonderful stuff. And so, why why would you serve soup? It attracts pensioners. I mean I I see that >> the problem is is that you know they she said you know because then if you get pensions they stay a long long time they don't spend very much money on anything else they can't go upstairs cuz they can't manage the stairs if you put them by the door they complain that there's a draft you see and she said I can make twice as much money from the same table with effectively you know two sittings of you know people in their 40s >> I've seen some hardcore coffee roasters that advertise the fact that they do not serve matcha. They're like stay away matcha people. >> This is fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. So, in other words, it's you know, in other words, it's it's because I this was my idea behind bacon sandwich where you wouldn't provide ketchup. You could have brown sauce or nothing and you'd only serve two drinks, which is builder's tea or champagne. And the argument was that sometimes it's a actually the person who writes about this brilliantly is Alex Hozi. Okay, >> which is specialtity enables premiumization to an extent. Partly it's just a heristic. You know, if you only serve four things, people absolutely know those four things have got to be pretty good because otherwise you wouldn't still be in business. Also, it's also proof of sincerity. You see, it's we're not just a profit maximizing exercise. We believe in what we do. So, it's almost like, you know, I'm not I'm not the world's biggest fan fan of the Simon Synynx school of, you know, every brand has to have this high-minded purpose, but nonetheless, as a costly signal of we're committed to being good at this one thing, and we're we're not going to brookke any distractions, even if in the short term they may be profitable. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That is it. It's kind of like quite a good sign, I think. >> Yeah. Yeah, the whole thing fascinates me because it's such a what I really love is things I was talking to to Greg who runs Octopus Energy and my theory is if you could get them to talk together and respect each other, if you got 10 absolutely [ __ ] hotcore systems engineers in a room with 10 shitheot marketers and you got enough drink flowing so they can actually establish a rapport, half the world's problems to be solved. you know quite quickly. >> Yeah. >> And um because an awful lot of problems I think are a really weird combination of engineering and psychology and most people the value of marketing is not what we do it's how we think. I keep reiterating this because the mistake that marketers have made is that we did this ad campaign and then we did this and you know and look you know we spent this and we got that. You're using the language of finance to justify your own existence. But the real value of marketing is a bit wanky. It's philosophical. It gives the business an entirely new outlook on the world which then presents totally new and innovative ways of solving problems. >> Yeah. Speaking of the psychological factors, I've I've read a few things and seen that there has been a a decline in demand for the luxury goods market. What's what's going on there? Um there's a theory I've got and we ought to distinguish here and the best people do make this distinction. There's the luxury goods market, you know, probably best exemplified by Hermes or some of these very very high-end often Italian. >> Hermes seems to be the ones that's actually doing okay with the rest of suffering. >> Well, there's also the luxury brands market which is slightly different. Uh well, it's very different in that um it's more about signaling than it is about the intrinsic. It's all about signaling, you know. >> Um but there's discreet signaling with real luxury where only a select target audience will know uh you know what's going on. >> Yeah. >> Best exemplified perhaps by the whoever did the costume design for succession. you know, obviously spend a load of time studying kind of the super rich and it's all sort of Max Mara Kashmir and it's very understated and you know, you know, other people can tell. >> Yeah. Like Laura Piana style. >> Yeah, you've got it exactly. Yeah. Not many people don't. And then there's kind of brash luxury. Now, there is an argument that one the luxury brands market as opposed to the luxury goods market um sort of jumped the shark a bit and that they got greedy. There's one theory which says they always had a policy that you ramped your prices up by sort of six seven% a year. I I can remember when I when I first moved to London and bear in mind I was fairly skinned, right? You could go to Harvey Nichols and buy some clothing at a kind of fairly sane price. >> And I'm sure you can still if you r. all that stuff uh has got more expensive than I've got richer over the course of my life in a weird way. >> And one of the theories is that that works perfectly well that 6% a year stuff until you have four or 5% inflation cuz if you add the two together, people notice. >> Yes. So you know 10% inflation compounded people are going into a shop you know to buy you know their next pair of church's shoes and going what the actual [ __ ] [laughter] right so there's a theory that actually that it was a strategy that worked very very well the strategy of premiumization worked very very well but it depended on very low inflation >> if you wanted to put your prices up by five six 7% above inflation every year it helped to have really low inflation because people then didn't notice that much. There's also of course an interesting thing which is that uh the cars in London used to be a major status play uh in the 80s and 90s. What car you drove was something you talked about, you know, showed off. Status currencies move. So they might you know they might you know I mean I would argue that higher education has become a status currency to a large extent. Well, and then experiences >> and experiences have become >> this is one of my favorite experiments which um was you take an audience of 200 300 middleclass Londoners and you ask them okay how many people here have been to Matchu Pitchu. >> Yeah. >> And undoubtedly a you know a small little you know there'll be 10 15 hands go up. Then you say, "How many of you been to Lincoln Cathedral?" And two people put up their hands and they go, "But I was born in Lincoln." I went to university in Lincoln. I don't know a sing, you know, I can only I've only remember one person who's made the trip to Lincoln from London to look at Lincoln Cathedral. [gasps] Lincoln Cathedral. First of all, you don't get oxygen deprivation. It doesn't require a long haul flight to Peru. It doesn't require a grueling trip up some bloody mountain. And not not dissing the Peruvians here, but I mean architecturally Lincoln Cathedral shits on Matu Picchu. >> Mhm. >> Um uh fascinating fact for a Dubai person by the way >> in when they built the Burge. What's >> Burj Khalifa? >> It is called the Khalifa. Correct. >> It was the Burge Dubai but then >> that's right. The neighbors forced them to re >> Abu Dhabi. Uh no Abu Dhabi bailed them out. >> Bailed them out. Yeah. That that was the lovely um Did you ever see um Andrew Schultz doing his live stand up? >> I've seen a few of his clips. Yeah. >> So he's there in Abu Dhabi and he said, "Anyone here from Dubai? How does it feel to be among real money?" [laughter] >> Yeah. Anyway, sorry. He That guy's a genius, by the way. Absolutely fantastic comedian. Um but when the Burge was built uh uh when it reached a certain height when it overtook Petronis Towers or whatever else it was >> the first time in world history that the tallest building in the world had been in the Middle East since 1311 when the Spire of Lincoln Cathedral overtook the Great Pyramid in Giza. >> Yeah. So this building in 1311 was the tallest building in the world and held that record until the spire fell down in a lightning strike or something about 200 years later. It's still it's still you walk up the hill. This is you know this is trans s all that friendship. I mean you know this is transcendent stuff. Lincoln Cathedral is just and there's a castle right next to it. I mean Durham's pretty good but Lincoln Cathedral you know is is is next level. And so you get this status thing which is uh my my brother realized it when he was sitting in a hotel room in Singapore and they had um they had a competition and the second prize was a fortnight in Bali and the first prize was a week in London. Everybody in London wants to go to Barley and everybody in Singapore wants to go to London. And you realize it's actually scarcity signaling to some extent, isn't it? That we go on these longhaul holidays, not because they're intrinsically better. I'm 60. Do you want to [ __ ] dick around with all stuff? Okay. January, February, and March. Piss off to the Canary Islands or Madiraa. Short hall flight, lovely weather, nice people, nice food. Okay. Doesn't have any signaling value. Can't go. Oh, we went to Lanzerati. Everybody moves away, right? >> Mhm. >> But I mean, you could spend 3,000 quid having a much worse holiday. And so, you know that you're absolutely right that experiences travel being wellraveled. I mean, we did man campaign uh for Expedia about exactly that, which is travel yourself interesting. >> Mhm. >> That effectively gives you bragging rights. And of course, as travel becomes less and less expensive, the journeys have to become more and more torturous for them to acquire any status gains. >> Yeah, >> but I'll still give you that tip. Just piss off to the canal. If you're British, just piss off the can. It's fine. It's lovely. Fantastic. Right. All seen is the island. There are beaches. Hire a car, you know, toot around the place. Have a bit of an explore. As good holidays as any. One of the coolest things I did recent times, which I don't think I know anybody that has done it, was when I went to uh Japan, when I went to Tokyo. So, a handful of times per year, they do the the main event for sumo wrestling. And to you can't just buy your way in because they give out the tickets like a lottery to people that apply to them. And I think there is some reselling uh you know, in in the gray market where you can you can pay a premium to get access to this. So I fortunately had a contact who was able to get the tickets which I paid for but it wasn't extortionate >> but then I was there watching this elite sumo wrestling tournament and it was one of the coolest things I've ever done. >> It isn't effective. This is the interesting thing because of course there are a lot of very rich people and they they're globally mobile. >> Mhm. So the extent to which expensive things confer status when a lot of the people who are very rich are actually completely random and often not very cool. >> Mhm. >> This is the problem perhaps for the luxury brands industry that uh in other words you you know in other words you're you're in danger of being associated with vulgarity rather than taste. >> Yeah. Um, and there is the risk, I think, that some of those brands jump the shark. And what you'll see now, interestingly, Pollen, did you come across this bag brand? It's they've got a shop in Regent Street, and it's basically very very high-end sort of £15,000 quality handbaggery and they're selling for like 500 quid. Now, interestingly, LVMH went and snapped them up recently, and I think it's because they perceived it basically as a threat or or or an opportunity, but you you're starting to see these craftsmanship brands which are which are less overt now. Well, even even the replicas are so good now. >> No, no, no. I know. This is this is the problem, you see. And these things become ubiquitous and then you get the wrong user imagery and all those problems start to occur. And did they just get a bit too greedy? I think probably yes. >> You know, I mean the other thing is you always you always fall victim to this, you know, this sort of artisan undercurrent, you know, what you might call the farmers market competition. I mean, there are some um I also think of course the interesting thing with Hermes is they've gone to enormous lengths to prevent themselves being taken over uh because I think you know uh because >> how have they done that? Uh the it's something to do with corporate governance, a structure where more or less everything has to be approved by a family member even if they're a minority shareholder. So that it means that someone who did take them over wouldn't really be able to gain a controlling interest. It's some sort of not quite a poison pill defense, but I mean for the most part they're Yeah. I mean I Okay. I'm sure I'm sure they have, you know, you know, there are high-end sort of pieces of jewelry where the margin is pretty high, but I mean they're still a absolute, you know, craftsman purveyor of the stuff. >> Mhm. Um, and I don't know if you ever watch those people on YouTube who basically take a box cutter, a Stanley knife as we call it, to h, you know, to expensive, not not the Hermes stuff, but but, you know, 20,000 bags and they basically just cut through it and get to be honest, in terms of build quality and leather, there's nothing special here. You know, this is, you know, you can make this thing for 250 quid. >> Mhm. And undoubtedly they possibly you know it I think what you will see is you will start to see these more discrete brands. Now, psychologically, there's an element to me, and I had a lovely discussion about this with someone at work, which is brands like Versace, which is just I'm minted, I don't care who names it. I've I've argued that the people who wear that are probably the happiest people >> wear Versace. >> Uh the reason being that if you look at the people on this, this is gets a bit philosophical. Um, but the people who have to wear that discreet, you know, I'm just signaling to my fellow billionaires that I'm wearing a vuna, you know, cardigan or whatever it may be. Nobody else on the street will know as far as they're concerned when I'm sitting in a Starbucks. I'm just some random punter. But this tiny group of people who know and are discerning will spot that it's a, you know, you know, so and so purple label vuna whatnot, right? What problem with that? you're still worrying about what other people think. >> And I've often argued that I've always suspected that nevo ree people are probably very happy because they have all the enjoyment of their wealth without the anxiety of giving any thought to how they might be judged. >> Yeah. >> So there's an element there which is yes, you're a billionaire, you're buying your vuna cardigan, but deep down you're still deeply anxious about how you may be perceived. Whereas the person who just goes and buys some bling ass, you know, you know, some item of clothing with machino in it in eight feet high le um there's a certain wealth, isn't there, to not caring >> Mhm. >> about the opinions of your fellow man. You know, that almost is is equivalent. It's like moving to a low tax regime. Well, you do know all about that, don't you? But I mean you can move to a low tax regime, you can move to a low rent regime, or you can just acquire a certain independence of thought where you spend your money entertaining yourself rather than trying to impress others. >> Yeah. Well, one thing I've noticed about being in Dubai is you there's always going to be somebody there that has >> So there's no Do you always >> you can't compete? There's just people >> can you count a signal in Dubai? Like go around in a 2CV and just pretend not to care about all that stuff. >> I think there's more people doing that now. >> You think more people are doing that? Yeah. just cuz I remember when I first moved there I I was there was this period where you know I got the watch you get the car like you start to buy you know some clothes and then you just like I just don't care anymore and then >> because because you can't wear >> Yeah. For me now my it's like my physique does the talking >> you know I I just it's very minimal. Sometimes I won't even wear the watch anymore and it's just it's very plain very simple. >> Very interesting. I mean it's um because I mean there's the other thing you probably have is that you get a very different patterns of expenditure on luxury goods among men particularly if you have a culture where everybody's new from somewhere else right two combinations there's a wonderful paper about this which is why Neiman Marcus launched it effectively was created in Dallas not in Boston so there's new money there's new arrivals who can reinvent themselves and you tend to find there's also a surplus of men because the oil industry would create basically a gender imbalance. >> Mhm. >> And so you tend to get quite a lot of macho luxury goods behavior when you get those three qualities because in a place like Boston which is historically old money. Uh everybody knows who you are, where you went to school, all that weird Bostononian snobbish stuff. And so if you turn up there in a massive, you know, pair of machino sunglasses, if if I'd wandered around in Mombath where I grew up, you know, town of about what 12,000 people recovering from terrible floods, by the way, if anybody's feeling charitable, um uh if you um if you know, if I wander around there and kind of machine everything, >> yeah, I'm absurd. >> Austin is a bit like that as well, I think. >> Well, is that is that old money or new? No, I just don't be new cuz it has huge huge influxes of people. >> Yeah, I think there's a lot of people who moved there with a lot of money. Yeah. >> But there is not a showoff culture there. Not like in in comparison, you know, Miami, which is like >> No, no, no, no. I I find that quite refreshing in a way just because it's so nakedly honest, you can't dislike it in a way. >> But also, you have that nerd culture, don't you? Which is kind of, you know, it's it's it it's all about, you know, effectively, you know, what you've done, not what you own. Yeah. what what you've built >> what you've built. Yeah. >> No, that that's actually also possibly you you're overlaying that on Texan culture which can be you know a bit you know a bit different as a in a way as well. >> Mhm. >> But no I I find that fascinating the fact that in different places obviously you get luxury goods in cities because people arrive there from somewhere else no one knows who they are. They're then anxious about how they present themselves. Yeah. Yeah. If you if you're some elderly aristocrat in uh [clears throat] you know in a in a small town in the UK, you can go around dressed like a [ __ ] >> Mhm. >> That that that's how old money Americans often behave. You know, you can just go around, you know, you know, you know, basically doing what the hell you like. Um and so it's fascinating to see the effects of because it is very similar to singling in nature like the peacock's tail or, you know, the elk's antlers. It's a similar thing. It's a costly signal, you know, and because part of the problem was if you get into this business where the luxury brands start selling, you can't blame them. You attach your brand to, you know, things like lipsticks, which although very expensive, are affordable by a very large sw. And you maximize the success of that by making the branding very overt on those products. So, it becomes very, very visible. Then there is a there is a danger that your cache over time just becomes diluted. >> Mhm. >> Uh you I mean it's so you know obviously you know it's a bit like catwalk fashion. I mean the market for catwalk fashion is minuscule but you do the catwalk fashion for the halo effect it has on your ready to wear sales and on your lipstick sales and your perfume sales and everything else. [gasps] Obviously, I mean, it it's it's all champagne to an exact because also there's the question of gift giving. People want to give gifts where it's obvious that they've spent some money and so a lot of those things are vellin goods. In other words, the expensive nature of them is what confers value on them. Um, and so but you're absolutely right. There is a danger that what will what will happen is people will see that because the internet has made all that stuff really really readily available at any time and at any place to anybody. Some of the sort of artificial scarcity of that stuff was geographical. You know if you hadn't been to Milan or London or wherever you wouldn't have a Prada bag. >> Yeah. Whereas now you can go on eBay and buy a Prada bag. And so um people will then look for look for you know scarcity elsewhere in other words and it will be you know it will be an act of c curation or discovery rather than just an act of expenditure and that you know so the psychology is always changing and that's the interesting thing fundamentally human status competition isn't going to go away which is important by the way because um attempts to make it go away always fail. However, the currencies and mechanisms people use to signal their status over time are quite malleable. >> Mhm. >> Um, and you know, they can be pro-social. Philanthropy is status signaling to a degree. They can be highly pro-social or they could be highly antisocial. You know, in other words, you know, where one person's lo gain is another person's loss. >> Mhm. an an awful lot of early stage technology is funded act because it's what becomes a utility starts as a luxury good. I mean electricity in the home [clears throat] you know was probably as much done for reasons of status in the early days as it was for reasons of utility. Um my my grandparents were the fourth family in Wales to own a dishwasher. It was hugely expensive and in their case they probably did buy it for practical reasons. They weren't very blingy, but dishwashers were probably bought, you know, a lot of, you know, early technology was bought to show off. And then, of course, the showoffs of providing the early stage funding for the product to become producable at scale and then affordable by many. >> Mhm. Um, so you know, cars were there must have been a period where, to be honest, cars weren't objectively as good as a as a horse and cart in many respects, but people bought them to show off. >> I'm surprised people still do that with the iPhone. Like when they when they managed to get an iPhone before everybody else, they're like, >> Well, I've got a theory about that, which is [snorts] >> I don't really understand from a utility point of view why so much effort goes into the camera. And then I realized that if you don't innovate with the camera, there's no visible difference between an iPhone 17 and an iPhone 16 and iPhone 15. So you have to create this narrative around [ __ ] around with the photographic capabilities of a phone to provide an excuse to make the phone visibly different on the exterior >> from its predecessor so people then can enjoy the signaling value of buying the latest iPhone. >> Yeah. because I've always found that a bit weird that and actually I suddenly realized no no no what it is is the camera's own the only external cue uh that makes it unless you're a totally tragic nerd going on I notice the uh you know the bezel is like is 2 mm thinner whatever you know or the what's that thing called where the camera the selfie camera goes there's always a name for it isn't it the something slot or whatever it is and I suddenly realized that you know a lot of this camera stuff is probably driven by the fact that god we have to find a way of making this thing, you know, visibly different. >> Yeah, because everything has effectively settled on. We'll get back to the podcast in a second, but first of all, I want to say a massive shout out to Bionic. I have been using their supplements for the past 4 years. I never knew what supplements I needed to take. I'd always go into the pharmacy and buy a load of random bottles and end up popping pills all day, every day, not having a clue if I was consuming the vitamins which I should be consuming at all. But Bionic came to save the day. They are a tailorm made supplement company that will put together your own specific formula based on your activity, your gender. I have Bionic Pro where I get the blood test done every 3 to four months and based on that blood test, I get my own personalized formula. For those people who don't want to do a blood test or don't have access to that, then you can go with Bionic Go where you just have to fill in a short questionnaire and based on that questionnaire, you will get your tailored supplements with a surprisingly high degree of accuracy. So stop the guesswork, sign up to Bionic, and ensure that you remove those deficiencies and build up your immune system. Do you know the most tragic thing in the world if I'm being absently honest? And I'm an Android user. I think in a two, three, four I personally I think we'll end up we'll end voice or some other interface will will replace the smartphone. Probably the hatet Zuck's got it right with the spectacles that there's something really valuable there in terms of a new interface. >> And Zuck's been clever as well because you know a lot of those things don't even have a display. It's basically just voice, camera, headphones. And he's done this the old Walkman trick where you deliberately limit the functionality of a new innovation to make it more um how would I describe it? Make it easier for people to actually understand its affordances, its use case. But do you want me to be so I think the Canadians at RIM were right and Jobs was wrong. I think the loss of the physical keyboard in your portable phone has actually been a productivity disaster. I think it's unbelievably cute. I think we find it spectacularly to be >> I had a Blackberry back in the day. I used to love the Blackberry. >> You could type twice as fast on Blackberry. Even even with the genius that that you know Apple did in terms of predictive texting around making the key larger making the anticipated next keystroke larger on the screen >> for the less anticipated. It's why typing proper names or foreign words is such a [ __ ] living disaster on an iPhone because it's making wrong predictions about what the next letter is going to be. So if you're one of if you're creation, you have one of those names that starts HR and you're typing on an English language iPhone keyboard, my guess is it's going to be an absolutely >> you have to do like five times. >> Unless you have fingers like sort of little talons, you're going to have, you know, a chicken would probably manage to do it. Um, but it it's total s. >> I to be honest, I think that was literally a case of of display and novelty >> triumphing over utility. I think those poor old Canadian guys, I think they got it right. I think there should be a physical keyboard. Um I think that um you know literally we have a population of a billion people wasting 10 minutes a day typing ineffectually or failing to write things at length >> because of the the the neophilia that came around the the iPhone. >> Well, I would be surprised if it comes around in full circle like even now they're bringing back the flip phones. >> Well, I mean I've got one. I've got a folding Samsung. That's an interesting marketing conundrum. Part of the reason I've got this glorious thing, this pocket, uh, which is absolutely wonderful, by the way. I mean, I love it like a child. But, um, obviously you have to sell it for all kinds of reasons of being cool. >> 60 years old and my eyesight [ __ ] [laughter] Now, obviously, you can't market a phone, a folding phone. Hey, Gramps, why don't you get one of these phones? you can actually see what you're [ __ ] doing for a change rather than you know cuz you know a small smartphone is like that old joke about you know I can't tell this joke can I anymore the guy in aologist who painted his front hall through the letter box you know it's it's like trying to do an expansive Can I tell that joke >> no yeah I think it's all right you know it's it's that old joke okay we'll we'll part that one but it's you know it's it's effectively trying to operate under ridiculous constraints the young people are [ __ ] weird actually because when I was a kid, the whole thing in life was how big your telly was. >> Okay. And yeah, a bigger telly was better than a smaller telly. We all wanted a bigger telly. And that goes back to the 1950s. We know this because um uh [laughter] Okay. Um Kenneth Williams uh didn't get his smuty sense of humor, you know, uh entirely at birth. Inherited it from his mom. There's a lovely story in the history of the Carry On films where uh Kenneth Williams's mom is basically waiting sort of backstage with a load of friends um [laughter] waiting for her son to come out from you know some filming and someone said well my friend next door they've just bought a 14-in console and Mrs. Williams said 14 in that would be enough to console anyone. [laughter] Okay. So, so yeah, a 14-in TV was regarded as really really exciting, you know, back in the, you know, back in the carry-on era. And then they got bigger and bigger and bigger, you know, and then we got marvelous battery and but the best things you can buy. If you've got 300 quid, just go and buy a monitor. They're cheap as anything. And your productivity will go up massively. You can have four windows open at the same time. You can [ __ ] see what you're doing. Okay, it's brilliant. Big screens, fantastic. And then my kids are sitting there watching a film, right? These Hollywood people watching Netflix. Roger [ __ ] Deacon, the greatest [ __ ] you know, cinematographer in the history of the world. Is it Roger Deakons, right? He's he's there be agonizing over every angle, every detail of lighting, everything. And these [ __ ] are watching it on a [ __ ] letter box, right? I mean, I I think in another 10 years, my kids are going, "Oh, have you, you know, have you se you seen the new version of Avatar? I'm going to watch it on [ __ ] postage stamp." [laughter] >> I mean, what the [ __ ] Seriously. Yeah. >> Because to me, as I grew up in an age where you went, "Oh, [clears throat] god, that's that telly." I I'm I remember the age of the big sonny telly, not fat screen. Yeah. >> Yeah. The one that went all the way back. >> It was It weighed a ton. >> It weighed a ton. >> Could move it. >> Yeah. and and you went to someone's house and they have one of those and you go, "Oh, that was really living." >> And then my kids are watching watching this stuff and they're just peering at a screen. >> This is [ __ ] >> Yeah. It's like what was I watched recently? Uh when June 2 came out of the cinema, a masterpiece like that that should not be watched anywhere else apart from big screens with proper audio. By the way, I've also noticed this phenomenon because occasionally I watch a really great film on a plane and I think it's [ __ ] And I've also watched [ __ ] films on planes and thought they were great. >> Mhm. >> And you know you you really I think that's that whole screen thing is is is tragic actually in terms of people's enjoyment of film. >> Yeah. >> Um and um but um but no, the great thing about that folding phone is I can actually see what I'm doing. I can type properly. It's a proper keyboard. So oldies, Samsung won't tell you this, but actually the Galaxy Fold is your is your salvation, right? Again, it's one of those things you can't market it that way. No. You see, >> um I want to move on to the uh state of social media and the attention economy. How how can brands and companies get the attention of people these days when they're being >> this comes back to the original question which is one of my one of my happiest facts is that Oglev is pretty much I think one of the largest influencer marketing. Nobody knows this because they think of us as an ad agency. It's actually one of the largest influencer marketing uh agencies in the world, possibly the largest. >> I see that as incredibly important. uh you so we're getting back to that business of the personal brand, the personal recommendation. Someone who has reputational skin in the in the game saying James Hoffman saying I think you should buy this coffee. >> Yeah. >> Now you could I may be completely unbrivable. I have no idea. Now you could just about pay James Hoffman a stack of money to say that the second best coffee was really good. There's no way that guy's going to recommend any coffee that's [ __ ] >> Mhm. And that's because he has credibility at stake and reputational skin in the game. The problem with a lot of digital advertising is we moved from mainstream costly advertising and conventional media display advertising where it was consumed by a large audience simultaneously which had a lot of credibility because you were making a promise in a public space to a onetoone hyperargeted world where you were picking off customers one at a time. It was almost like a sort of sniper approach. Um, and by the way, you know, one thing that makes something trustworthy and believable is the fact that you deliver the promise or the claim in a public space where you can be held to account in the same way that we make our wedding vows, you know, in a church in front of 200 people who know us quite well rather than going to doortodoor. >> Yeah. Um and so one of the things we thought we what we did when when digital media came along is we went this is amazing because you can really target it. It can be really efficient right and we forgot to ask the corresponding question. Yes that's what digital media can do that conventional media couldn't. I grant that you couldn't you couldn't have a copy of the Daily Telegraph where every person got a different ad you know although online you can but a physical copy and so we said oh isn't this brilliant. So we got obsessed with the efficiency gains. What we didn't ask was the corresponding question of what was it that old media did that new media doesn't do very well. And I would argue that conviction, trust, you know, um also so um prompting social conversation for example, being part of culture, you know, I don't think digital media is is actually very good at those things compared to conventional mass media. Now, what's interesting about influencer marketing is it's a form of using digital media in a way that isn't entirely sort of soulless and automated. It is a person telling a story about a thing. >> Mhm. >> With a reason to believe and but it's done really well. And the now consumers aren't totally dafted. They recognize that sometimes people are paying to say those things. And you know, they're not necessarily plugging something out of the kindness of their own hearts, but nevertheless, it's much much closer to intelligent salesmanship. If if you take that old wonderful 1920s, I think it was Alfasa, the copyright Alfred Alaska, Lorden Thomas, who defined advertising as salesmanship in print. Um but it's it's actually in terms of convincing people uh in terms of uh storytelling, in terms of salesmanship. Nearly all digital advertising was unbelievably transactional. >> You know, it didn't have any it it it had transactional value. Um, but it didn't really have much it didn't have that much brand building capability, I don't think. >> Yeah. >> Or at least what brand building capability it had was much slower and less potent uh than uh other forms of media. And that's simply because consumers aren't they aren't merely passive recipients of data. They process information and they attach differing value to it depending on the medium and the means through which it arrives. Mhm. Um, do you feel like in today's world the the consumers are just overly sensitive to uh potential advertising that might be pushing the boundaries in terms of humor? >> That's a very good second. Yeah, there's a problem we got here which is which does worry me which is that >> it's like everybody's offended by this. There there's a thing I had to tell this story the other day on a podcast which is shortly after Robert Maxwell had drowned the owner of the Daily Mirror and and been revealed to have basically defrauded the Daily Mirror's uh pension holders of much of their pension. Uh the son he'd fallen off his yacht or probably or jumped whatever it may be. And the Sun ran an ad on the London Underground which simply said they were in a price war with the Daily Mirror. The mirror uh the sun was still at 10p. The super soreway ton sun was 10p. The mirror couldn't cope with the price war, put its prices back up. And the sun ad on the London Underground said, "The Daily Mirror now costs 30p. Don't go overboard to buy it." Right now, when I explained to people in 2025 that that ad ran and we thought it was funny and nobody thought of complaining or saying it was insensitive or imagine what Gileain must feel or any of that stuff. None of that stuff emerged. London Underground didn't have a problem running that ad. My brother, who'd come back from the United States, was sitting on the picn line, saw that ad, and found himself crying with laughter because he'd been living in the US for, you know, two years and missed the irreverent humor. >> Um, and you know, I could I could go and show you 20 or 30 ads which we thought were funny in in 1985, which would practically get you arrested. >> I'll give you one. I'll give you one for a brand of moccasins which said uh we stole their land, their cattle and their women and then we went back for their shoes. That that ran in the 1980s. Not only that, it is in an awards annual. >> Now, have you seen the ones of uh Ricky Drace has been putting on his Instagram for his vodka? >> No. No. And he's it's called Dutch Barn, is >> yeah. So, so I I think what he what he's done is he's he's put up these AI images of the ads he would like to run >> but would never get approved. >> So, a few of them is he had one that said, "Welcome to London. Don't forget your stab vest." And it's just him just there holding his glass. There's no Please use your headphones when using your phone or iPad, you thick, noisy [ __ ] Another one. You're taking the tube to a job you hate. Have a drink. Perfect. Absolutely. Brilliant. Yeah. By the way, advertising people have always played with. So FA Weldon, who is able copywriter, uh always wanted the line, "Vodka makes you drunker quicker, but it was illegal to run any alcohol advertising and indeed still is that suggests it makes you drunk." >> Mhm. >> Um the problem you then have is that there's this thing, by the way, no one no one where possible should upset or distress people. Yeah. in particularly when the advertising is displayed in a public space where you have no choice but to see it. I'm not I'm not just to be clear about that. Um however, what you have is a different problem which is confected outrage. So the the analogy I use is you can't run a restaurant which only serves food to which no one in the world is allergic. Okay? So in other words, you could only serve vegan food that contained obviously no lactose, but al also contained no gluten, which also contained no nuts, which also >> that's not a restaurant, okay? That's that that's self-denial on a plate. And what we're doing is if you calibrate a message that and the newspapers by the way the mainstream the MS the mainstream media as right-wing people always call it in a way connive in this because they love nothing more than going fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight fight they love actually finding finding a point of tension or or disagree >> rage bait >> rage baiting you got it exactly >> so they they they although they may claim to denig you know claim to denigrate wokeness, they in a weird way profit from it because you can create these artificial kind of, you know, fight in a pub car park over a sentence or Sydney Sweeney has great jeans or whatever it may be. >> Now, just as you can't run that restaurant which no one is allergic, you cannot calibrate humor uh to the level of the angriest, most humorous person in the room. It's impossible virtually, in other words, to say anything of interest that couldn't be upsetting to anybody. >> It's also, you know, you could say very boring things that are not upsetting to anybody, but what's the point of that? >> Mhm. >> You say very unfunny things that don't offend people. Again, great, but it's not funny. And the part of the problem is caused by, you know, there's there's both rage baiting and there's confected outrage. So people signal their sensitivity to some issue by claiming to be offended by things which probably don't even offend the people who they're claiming are victims of the state statement in many cases. >> Um hyper sensitivity to this kind of thing. And the thing that worries me is that if businesses effectively become frightened of communicating anything which could be turned into a kind of tweet storm or a tabloid consumers aren't idiots actually a you know uh American Eagle did brilliantly out of that Sydney Sweeney campaign. You know, it's partly because some people thought that the outrage was bollocks, rightly, I think, in that case. And um uh and consumers also realize that a load of these people are basically talking [ __ ] But it does create the CEO's worst nightmare, which is he's asked to appear on the television to defend something. And if that makes people frightened of communicating in a funny or interesting way because as soon as you do that, someone will immediately raise some red flag or whatever, not really on the basis of genuine offense, but simply because they want to signal their own particular level of pumousness as a form of virtue. >> Mhm. >> Uh then it simply makes all communication boring. >> Yeah. And it also makes it incredibly predictable. And as I said, you know, you you you you can't have a restaurant critic with no sense of taste. And you can't have humor being policed by people who have no sense of humor, which is genuinely what is happening. Even with comedians, I'm sure they've they've felt it a little bit where they're they're cracking jokes and then people are are complaining about >> I think said um he won't play the college circuit anymore because you just get too much painful backlash as soon as you get vaguely controversial. And I'm thinking when I was at university, I would have torn my eyes out to have the chance to go and see Chris Rock. The idea that these people are so pissy, right, that rather than saying, "I cannot believe our luck. Chris Rock is coming to our university town, >> they're actually going, "Let's find a way to complain about this." >> It's almost astonishing. I mean, >> dark like for me, dark humor is funny. Like sometimes the darker is, it's like, no, >> it's funny because it's outrageous. That's a really complicated one because see so you get this the one of the worst talks you'll ever have to give is a is a a best man speech because half of the audience is 70 and half the audience your contemporaries and what's amusing to you to the elderly is boring to your contemporaries what's funny to your contemporaries is shocking to your you know shocking to the elder cohort and I mean the most ingenious solution by the way do you know what this was which was >> well for a best No, Jordan Peterson solved the problem of his talks being effectively barricaded and disrupted by protesters. Do you know how he did it? >> By speaking at about 8:30 in the morning. [laughter] >> It turns out that these people aren't all that sincere. In other words, they're they're quite scandalized by what he has to say and and are very very keen to signal the extent to which they're distressed by his opinions, but not to the extent of setting an alarm clock, it turns out. >> And so that, you know, that's that's if you like a kind of way of of of separating the costly signal from the cheap signal. And there's a lot of cheap and of course if you think about it, cheap media enabled cheap signaling. >> Mhm. You know, when you had to when in order to complain to the Times about an article, you had to go and get a piece of paper and write a letter and buy a stamp and post it and then wait, you know, 3 days for a reply from the editor or whatever it may be. It's fairly reasonable under those circumstances that you know, you know, mad or not, those people were exhibiting genuine distress at whatever it was they'd read, you know, or complaining to Offcom or complaining to the BBC >> when you can simply be a cheap keyboard warrior without even getting up from your chair and you can complain about anything and also you can complain about it interminably because so >> and people like to join the bandwag as wealth >> and and then other people want to join in because you it's called a virtue spiral. Yeah. >> Sometimes it's it's sort of virtue signaling spiral. >> Things just run out of hand. >> Yeah. >> Also, you can enjoy the benefit of anonymity. But finally, if you think about it, in a normal evolutionary human setting where we lived in groups of 100, 200, 400 people, whatever it may be, if you kept going on and on and on about something, you lost all your friends because you became basically boring serial complaint. >> You know, you know those people who they walk into the pub and everybody would find a very quick excuse to go somewhere else because all you'd get was this predictable rant. But you could you can literally do that on Twitter for your entire life ranting about some single issue searching for you know you can be a kind of hobby bobby community policeman self-appointed going around looking for things to complain about. Now that kind of behavior would be considered just socially unacceptable in a pub setting. >> Mhm. >> Digitally there's nothing you can do to stop it. I use that as a heristic, by the way, which is if someone has a rant of me on Twitter, I go and look at what they tweet about. >> If if what they tweet about is a whole variety of interesting things, you know, occasionally here's a kitten falling off a skateboard and here's my here's here's me in Tenneref and here's me complaining about this and here's me going on holiday. I go, this is a normal sane person. I probably need to take their complaint seriously because it's quite likely they have been offended. And then there's that other person where you go and look at their feed and every single post they make is about a single narrow issue and you basically go, "This person is basically deranged. I'm going to ignore them completely." >> Yeah. >> So I mean you literally had a case where one of the most eminent philosophers in the UK AC Graving must have spent three years simply tweeting his opposition to Brexit. I literally he was driven practically insane by Brexit. you get these bit like Trump derangement syndrome, there was Brexit derangement syndrome with the best people in the world. Whatever your opinion, it wasn't that big a deal, right? >> Mhm. >> You know, it it's sorry, it's not, you know, and it's not like the people who got really upset about it spent ages, you know, campaigning for higher GDP. You know, they weren't that passionate about, you know, a 1% fall in annualized GDP growth beforehand. It was only when it affected their identity or they thought made them, you know, you know, or or they disliked the people who'd voted the other way. It was only then that those people got upset. Their their ostensible economic arguments were were really a bit of a smoke screen for for what was a deep emotional attachment to um not seeming patriotic in a weird kind of way. But um AC grading I mean if you look at his Twitter feed I mean this is literally like there's years worth of this stuff. So question is you if you compile this into a book right you put all those tweets end to end this person's completely [ __ ] mad. It's just the most bonkers thing I've ever seen in my life. And yet the media because there there's no cost attached. There's no cost both in effort, time, skill, or money to producing a message. It's an absolute paradise for cheap signaling. >> Mhm. And you know, whereas you know, uh, expensive media where you have to pay and that, by the way, has a bearing on the efficacy of advertising. Okay? If you took a full page in the Telegraph announcing your new car, patently people knew you'd spend a lot of money to put that ad there. Therefore, you wouldn't be spending that money if the car wasn't worth buying. >> Yeah. Right. In other words, if this car weren't worth me test driving, it wouldn't be worth them spending £20,000 to tell me about it. If you can basically, you know, basically scatter dross around the place, you like confetti at almost no cost, then what the ad is saying may be exactly the same, but what the ad is conveying is totally different. It doesn't convey the same confidence in your product as an expensive message does. It's why actually interestingly physical direct mail is an extraordinarily although it seems absurdly old-fashioned, it's an incredibly effective advertising medium because someone spent a pound to tell me about this. Therefore, at the very least, it's probably worthy of my attention. In the same way, okay, let's magnify that a bit further. If you receive something in Dubai via FedEx, you're not going to throw it in the bin. No, >> you go, you know, someone patently, you know, splashed the cash to get this to me. At the very least, I need to find out what it is. >> Yeah. >> Whereas a door drop you can throw away unopened. >> Yeah. >> And and of course, this processing is going on all the time. It's unconscious. It's it's sort of done tacitly. It's it's it's felt, but it's not thought, and therefore, it's often unspoken. But it has a major bearing on the credibility we attach to advertising messages, which is the cost of their transmission. And that's sometimes why, by the way, using celebrities works, which is if you got Tom Cruz in an ad, well, there are two possibilities. Either Tom Cruz really, really loves your products to an insane degree. Okay? Or second best, you've spent a stack of money to get Tom Cruz, which means that your product is basically, you know, if it's worth promoting, it's worth investigating. >> Yeah. >> Simple, you know, second order logic. It's not that big a deal. But most most sort of theories around messaging use what you might call the transmission model of how do you get this information from A to B uh you know from effectively from originator to eyeball as inexpensively as possible. What they're not thinking about is what goes on behind the eyeball once that message is received. >> Yeah. [snorts] >> Awesome. I'm going to have to wrap it up there. Unfortunately, even though there's more I would love to talk about, we are running out of time. So, >> understood. Um, what >> how do you feel about Dubai? Do you do you want to come home? Do you want to stay there? What's the >> People ask me this a lot? I feel like I've almost become this unofficial ambassador for the place. If I didn't like it, I wouldn't be there. >> No. No. I completely buy that. Yeah. >> Um, but I think it's it's a great place to you find a lot of people go there temporarily. They go there, they do their thing, they build, they network, and then usually after a while they might go on to the next place. I don't know if it's a place where you'd go there and want to be there forever. Like for me being uh >> are property prices taking some of the guilt off the gingerbread because how expensive is it to live? Because my great question is everybody's burbling on about the tax rates and having a go at the government. This is income tax. >> And my argument is look the reason uh the younger generation has skid is rent not tax predominantly. And the problem I've got is that we are an employer who demands that everybody who works for us lives in the most expensive real estate in Europe or at least within commuting distance of it. And consequently, there by the way there are a whole load of concatenation of factors like the dual income household and so on which have made it more and more centripal in terms of people having to live in these very large cities. I mean, going to university and wanting to stay in touch with your friends basically requires you to move to a bloody enormous city. >> And I think in Dubai, you get a lot more for your money. >> You do get your money, do you? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> The the the quality, like the view, the amenities. Um it's certainly cheaper in comparison to London. Like if I >> if I was to spend the same amount of money, which I spend now, on a London spot, I would be like, really? This is it? It it feels confined. And by the way, the unspoken thing which we want to talk about is domestic service. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> Because if you look at it, an enormous amount of technological ingenuity, the washing machine, the dishwasher, right? Nobody ever says this because we always talk about the Turing test and I always talk about, you know, I always talk about the viceroy test which is to what extent does this technology mean you actually live better than the viceroy of India? I.e. someone with access to, you know, extraordinary levels of domestic service. >> And, you know, washing machines are just basically a servant substitute, [snorts] dishwashers, similar. There are entertainment devices, you know, computer games, televisions, etc., which are genuine improvement, right? You have much better access to entertainment in terms of making your life easier. A Whimo is just a chauffeer. Yes. Okay. A dishwasher is just a housemaid, as would have been the case for my grandparents. So, an awful lot of this stuff is simply making up for living in a in a high labor cost economy. And nobody ever says that about Dubai, but I'm sure that is actually part of the appeal. >> Yeah. >> Fair. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> You can get [ __ ] done for you relatively inexpensively. >> Yes. uh nobody ever you know that's the sort of dirty secret which which nobody talks about but um because always a very very interesting philosophical point which both my father's answer to the question I think it was Nim Telb's answer to the same question and also John Gray the philosopher's answer what would you do differently if I gave you $10 million to which the answer was uh get a chauffeur >> yeah especially there Yeah, but >> because the driving is a bit hairy, is it? Or or >> Yeah, there just too many people have moved there and the roads can't handle it, which I'm sure they will fix at some point because >> the they want to make it the most appealing place ever and traffic is not appealing >> and we've shot ourselves in the foot by making it so difficult to construct new infrastructure >> and it takes a long time. >> By the way, that's the real problem. Not necessar, you know, it's the it's the it's the time cost, so >> I I'll just Hi, I'll call you in 5 minutes. Okay. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. So, I've got to scoot now. I'm conscious of that. I may be a tiny bit late. Righty ho. Okie dokie. Righty ho. Bye-bye. Yeah, good idea. Okay, no problem. Right here. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Uh, sorry about this. Just a Oh dear. 60-y old man. Prostate measurements everywhere. Yeah.