I'm trying to derisk my effort slashin increase my hit rate. So I was like, how increase my hit rate. So I was like, how do I use data but not make myself a do I use data but not make myself a clone that's copy pasting everyone clone that's copy pasting everyone else's stuff. And that's basically why I else's stuff. And that's basically why I built Sand Castle's movie. That's built Sand Castle's movie. That's Callaway. He started four businesses Callaway. He started four businesses that were all killed by the same that were all killed by the same problem. No one cared. He had no problem. No one cared. He had no audience, which meant he had no audience, which meant he had no customers. So he made it his mission to customers. So he made it his mission to crack audience growth. and now he has crack audience growth. and now he has over a billion views, a 50% viral hit over a billion views, a 50% viral hit rate, and he created a tool called Sand rate, and he created a tool called Sand Castles that helps other creators do the Castles that helps other creators do the same. In this episode, you'll learn the same. In this episode, you'll learn the exact system he uses to find and exact system he uses to find and validate viral video topics before he validate viral video topics before he ever hits record. ever hits record. >> My framework for content is I call it >> My framework for content is I call it the modern content stack. the modern content stack. >> The metrics you need to obsess over so >> The metrics you need to obsess over so that your content grows your business. that your content grows your business. >> Views are not the right metric to study. >> Views are not the right metric to study. Use our A metric to study and I would Use our A metric to study and I would say the third most important when I look say the third most important when I look at the stack. at the stack. >> And if you stick around long enough, >> And if you stick around long enough, Callaway will show you exactly how you Callaway will show you exactly how you can build your own content research can build your own content research system from scratch. Thank you to one of system from scratch. Thank you to one of 10 for sponsoring this video. 10 for sponsoring this video. >> There's kind of a fallacy between like >> There's kind of a fallacy between like views equals money. It's really like views equals money. It's really like views does not equal money. You want views does not equal money. You want density around one ICP as many times as density around one ICP as many times as you can possibly get it in a given week. you can possibly get it in a given week. So like my framework on this is called So like my framework on this is called content minutes. So essentially like you content minutes. So essentially like you could imagine your offer ladder or could imagine your offer ladder or whatever your offer stack at certain whatever your offer stack at certain price points. So I don't know what price points. So I don't know what you're like running right now, but I you're like running right now, but I know you have the lab which is probably know you have the lab which is probably one of your higher ticket things. And one of your higher ticket things. And then as you go down you've got like then as you go down you've got like course bundles, individual courses. course bundles, individual courses. Maybe you have something at $47. So Maybe you have something at $47. So essentially like imagine you took that essentially like imagine you took that ladder from low to high and you overlaid ladder from low to high and you overlaid an amount of minutes that someone would an amount of minutes that someone would have to watch your content and trust you have to watch your content and trust you for those minutes. That's like pretty for those minutes. That's like pretty critical. And at the $47, maybe it's critical. And at the $47, maybe it's like 20 minutes worth of content. And at like 20 minutes worth of content. And at 20 minutes, they'd trust you enough to 20 minutes, they'd trust you enough to buy it if it fit their problem. And then buy it if it fit their problem. And then one one rung upg one one rung upg like to get into the lab, they probably like to get into the lab, they probably would have to have watched hundreds of would have to have watched hundreds of minutes. But like once they cross that minutes. But like once they cross that threshold, then they'll convert. So if threshold, then they'll convert. So if you think about it, most people are you think about it, most people are like, "Well, I should just do YouTube." like, "Well, I should just do YouTube." Because every YouTube video, if it's 20, Because every YouTube video, if it's 20, and yours or podcasts, like 60 minutes and yours or podcasts, like 60 minutes long, the average watch time, let's say, long, the average watch time, let's say, is 20 to 30 minutes. You're getting a is 20 to 30 minutes. You're getting a lot of those blocks in one shot. And so lot of those blocks in one shot. And so you can scale someone up that ladder of you can scale someone up that ladder of trust pretty quick, which is why you've trust pretty quick, which is why you've had so much success with YouTube, right? had so much success with YouTube, right? Because somebody watches five episodes, Because somebody watches five episodes, that might happen in a single night. that might happen in a single night. Boom, you hit 200 minutes, and then Boom, you hit 200 minutes, and then they'll they'll be willing to buy they'll they'll be willing to buy anything. My framework for content is I anything. My framework for content is I call it the modern content stack, which call it the modern content stack, which is a basically a triangle. You've got is a basically a triangle. You've got short form, long form, both going into short form, long form, both going into email. That's like the golden goose. If email. That's like the golden goose. If you if you could do anything, it would you if you could do anything, it would be one short form platform. I think be one short form platform. I think Instagram is the most valuable or Instagram is the most valuable or LinkedIn depending on the audience. for LinkedIn depending on the audience. for you is probably Instagram, YouTube for you is probably Instagram, YouTube for long form, both into email and you you long form, both into email and you you pretty much can't lose. Now, from a pretty much can't lose. Now, from a content man perspective, you may think content man perspective, you may think if I had to make a tradeoff of YouTube if I had to make a tradeoff of YouTube verse short form, you're going to want verse short form, you're going to want YouTube. And I agree with that, right? YouTube. And I agree with that, right? The reason most people want to start The reason most people want to start with short form is because YouTube's so with short form is because YouTube's so difficult, like so many moving parts, difficult, like so many moving parts, you've already cracked it. However, once you've already cracked it. However, once you're getting what you're getting from you're getting what you're getting from YouTube and you kind of have a formula, YouTube and you kind of have a formula, that's when you look to expand the that's when you look to expand the universe into short form to kind of get universe into short form to kind of get more uh breadth of the minutes to bring more uh breadth of the minutes to bring it all back to what I was starting with it all back to what I was starting with in terms of the narrow ICP. The minutes in terms of the narrow ICP. The minutes don't acrue unless the person who don't acrue unless the person who watched the video trust you and actually watched the video trust you and actually have the problem you're talking about. have the problem you're talking about. So if you broadened or you know made So if you broadened or you know made more generic the topic you're talking more generic the topic you're talking about yeah maybe it gets 100,000 views about yeah maybe it gets 100,000 views instead of 20 but actually none of those instead of 20 but actually none of those 100,000 blocks hit because no trust was 100,000 blocks hit because no trust was acred because the topic you had to talk acred because the topic you had to talk about was so generic and like surface about was so generic and like surface level that it didn't actually acrue level that it didn't actually acrue trust. So for me it's like what I try to trust. So for me it's like what I try to get people to do is very narrowly define get people to do is very narrowly define your ICP. I like to think of it as an your ICP. I like to think of it as an audience of one. So like if there was audience of one. So like if there was just one person in a chair in front of just one person in a chair in front of you that's like probably somebody in the you that's like probably somebody in the lab. You can just picture them right lab. You can just picture them right now. It's like if I could give value on now. It's like if I could give value on every single piece of content to that every single piece of content to that person, there's a lot more people like person, there's a lot more people like that and it would scale accordingly. The that and it would scale accordingly. The algorithms in the last like one to two algorithms in the last like one to two years have gotten so good at targeting years have gotten so good at targeting the exact type of person you want that the exact type of person you want that you don't actually need more than like you don't actually need more than like 10 to 20,000 views per post on Instagram 10 to 20,000 views per post on Instagram other than for ego reasons. You can other than for ego reasons. You can drive a ton of email lead genen from drive a ton of email lead genen from that. So I would say like the first that. So I would say like the first thing is narrow is good. You can there's thing is narrow is good. You can there's things we can talk about in terms of how things we can talk about in terms of how to expand the saturation within that to expand the saturation within that narrow slice like the way you frame the narrow slice like the way you frame the hooks and the topics but like you want hooks and the topics but like you want narrow. If our ICP are other creators narrow. If our ICP are other creators who are educational in nature for their who are educational in nature for their audiences, audiences, my perspective has been that education my perspective has been that education has been harder to do well on uh has been harder to do well on uh especially Instagram and Tik Tok. But especially Instagram and Tik Tok. But that might be a limiting belief too when that might be a limiting belief too when you see people who are doing education you see people who are doing education in short form video and doing it well. in short form video and doing it well. What is true about those folks that What is true about those folks that they're being successful in a world they're being successful in a world where there's a lot of just like great where there's a lot of just like great pure entertainment that is probably more pure entertainment that is probably more engaging? engaging? >> Yeah. How do you define doing it well? >> Yeah. How do you define doing it well? Are you talking about views? Are you talking about views? >> That's a good question. I would say >> That's a good question. I would say doing it well in terms of uh they are doing it well in terms of uh they are making Instagram worthwhile for them. making Instagram worthwhile for them. [laughter] Guess is like the ultimate [laughter] Guess is like the ultimate answer. I would say that probably in the answer. I would say that probably in the back of my mind when I asked that back of my mind when I asked that question was like okay yes they're question was like okay yes they're they're doing good views. They're doing they're doing good views. They're doing views on par with people who aren't views on par with people who aren't doing education. You know the target doing education. You know the target market for this is actually fairly market for this is actually fairly large. So if if views are in the large. So if if views are in the singledigit thousands, it feels like singledigit thousands, it feels like there's just a lot being left on the there's just a lot being left on the table. So views as a metric doesn't table. So views as a metric doesn't matter in an absolute sense, but it matter in an absolute sense, but it feels like we are really barely feels like we are really barely scratching the surface scratching the surface >> 100%. So I would say views are not the >> 100%. So I would say views are not the right metric to study. Views are a right metric to study. Views are a metric to study and I would say the metric to study and I would say the third most important when I look at the third most important when I look at the stack. I also think not all views are stack. I also think not all views are created equal, right? So an created equal, right? So an entertainment video that has a million entertainment video that has a million views is not getting the trust views is not getting the trust accumulation the same way an education accumulation the same way an education video it's 40,000 views. It's super video it's 40,000 views. It's super dense. So that that does make it hard. dense. So that that does make it hard. The hard part is this decoupling from The hard part is this decoupling from like the thing you can see from other like the thing you can see from other people which is views and your own like people which is views and your own like all of our brains are like see number all of our brains are like see number num want number bigger compare number num want number bigger compare number right and so it can cause a lot of right and so it can cause a lot of people to stop or to go down the wrong people to stop or to go down the wrong path when they're anchoring views as the path when they're anchoring views as the number one metric. And here here's what number one metric. And here here's what I mean by that. If you know professional I mean by that. If you know professional creators are the number one target creators are the number one target audience and you know all you have to do audience and you know all you have to do is get them to trust you and they will is get them to trust you and they will ascend down the funnel because you have ascend down the funnel because you have all that dialed. You just got to get all that dialed. You just got to get their email and you know that you can their email and you know that you can monetize them. If you know that's true monetize them. If you know that's true and you know that education content is and you know that education content is the best way to get trust at scale. the best way to get trust at scale. Let's just hold those things constant. Let's just hold those things constant. Then you studying an entertainment video Then you studying an entertainment video from someone else is actually from someone else is actually distracting you from like the right distracting you from like the right benchmark. Right? the right benchmark is benchmark. Right? the right benchmark is am I making a a high trust high value am I making a a high trust high value video educationally to get one more video educationally to get one more content minute on the stack like in a content minute on the stack like in a vacuum right looking me looking at Logan vacuum right looking me looking at Logan Paul does nothing for me right me Paul does nothing for me right me looking at I'm just thinking of like looking at I'm just thinking of like random entertainment names and so the random entertainment names and so the number one thing I think to to go number one thing I think to to go through is what what are the best through is what what are the best metrics to track and maybe I could just metrics to track and maybe I could just share like how I'm approaching this on share like how I'm approaching this on my channels cuz I basically solve short my channels cuz I basically solve short form in like a pseudo entertainment form in like a pseudo entertainment niche you could say like I was doing niche you could say like I was doing tech, which sounds educational, but tech, which sounds educational, but really it's like entertainment. And I really it's like entertainment. And I was doing that for a brand deal was doing that for a brand deal strategy. So like that was a game to strategy. So like that was a game to play. The game you're playing and the play. The game you're playing and the game I'm now playing on my Callway game I'm now playing on my Callway marketing, completely different game. marketing, completely different game. And so even me, like I can't really look And so even me, like I can't really look at tech as a proxy for marketing because at tech as a proxy for marketing because it's completely different. So maybe I it's completely different. So maybe I can explain like what I'm doing on can explain like what I'm doing on Callaway Marketing and how I'm looking Callaway Marketing and how I'm looking at it. at it. >> The three metrics that I think matter >> The three metrics that I think matter most, number one is conversions per most, number one is conversions per video. And conversions measured as video. And conversions measured as emails collected per video. That means emails collected per video. That means every video I have a CTA. Every CTA is every video I have a CTA. Every CTA is driving to a lead magnet where I can driving to a lead magnet where I can capture emails and I'm measuring all of capture emails and I'm measuring all of those in many chat and I can go through those in many chat and I can go through like this batch process that I run. like this batch process that I run. That's number one. Number two is That's number one. Number two is followers gained per video. That is more followers gained per video. That is more valuable than views because a follow valuable than views because a follow when someone goes to follow it's like when someone goes to follow it's like five to 10x more powerful because five to 10x more powerful because they're like that was so good I can't they're like that was so good I can't miss it again. So before I looked at miss it again. So before I looked at total views I would look at followers total views I would look at followers gained and just say which one is driving gained and just say which one is driving more followers. Last I would look at more followers. Last I would look at total views. Now, the reason why total total views. Now, the reason why total views is helpful when you're looking at views is helpful when you're looking at competition is because you don't you competition is because you don't you don't have insight really into how many don't have insight really into how many email subscribers their videos are email subscribers their videos are driving or how many followers gain. driving or how many followers gain. Those are like private metrics behind Those are like private metrics behind the wall. But you could look at someone the wall. But you could look at someone else's and see views. So, if you're else's and see views. So, if you're looking at like what's working for looking at like what's working for others, you have to settle for views for others, you have to settle for views for others cuz you can't see the other two. others cuz you can't see the other two. Something I admire about Callaway is his Something I admire about Callaway is his willingness to invest in experts to help willingness to invest in experts to help him skip the learning curve. That's what him skip the learning curve. That's what he did when he hired the one of 10 team he did when he hired the one of 10 team to help with his YouTube channel. You to help with his YouTube channel. You probably know the one of 10 team as the probably know the one of 10 team as the leading tool for researching viral leading tool for researching viral ideas, titles, and thumbnails. It's what ideas, titles, and thumbnails. It's what I use the most on my channel. The reason I use the most on my channel. The reason the tool works so well is that the team the tool works so well is that the team is full of YouTube strategists who is full of YouTube strategists who really know their stuff. What you may really know their stuff. What you may not know is that they also have a not know is that they also have a consulting arm that's not only worked consulting arm that's not only worked with Callaway, but Olly Abdal, Will with Callaway, but Olly Abdal, Will Tennyson, Mike Shake, and a bunch of Tennyson, Mike Shake, and a bunch of others, too. Collectively, they've others, too. Collectively, they've helped generate over 2 billion views for helped generate over 2 billion views for their clients. The one of 10 team helped their clients. The one of 10 team helped Callaway grow a new channel from zero to Callaway grow a new channel from zero to over 250,000 subscribers in just one over 250,000 subscribers in just one year. They helped with this video, this year. They helped with this video, this video, and this video, too. One video video, and this video, too. One video alone brought in over 2 million views alone brought in over 2 million views and generated more than $100,000 in and generated more than $100,000 in revenue. If you want to work with the revenue. If you want to work with the same team that took Callaway from zero same team that took Callaway from zero subscribers to where he is now, that's subscribers to where he is now, that's the one of 10 strategy team. They are the one of 10 strategy team. They are very selective with who they work with very selective with who they work with and only take on about five new clients and only take on about five new clients per month. They focus on the things that per month. They focus on the things that actually move the needle, ideas, titles, actually move the needle, ideas, titles, thumbnails, and positioning. You get a thumbnails, and positioning. You get a dedicated Slack channel and regular dedicated Slack channel and regular one-on-one calls to communicate with one-on-one calls to communicate with their team to ensure each video is set their team to ensure each video is set up for success. This is not a course, up for success. This is not a course, and it's not a one-time solution. It's and it's not a one-time solution. It's [music] direct ongoing support from a [music] direct ongoing support from a real YouTube expert who has done this real YouTube expert who has done this for some of YouTube's largest creators. for some of YouTube's largest creators. [music] [music] book a free discovery call with the one book a free discovery call with the one of 10 team today with the link in the of 10 team today with the link in the description and let them know that Jay description and let them know that Jay sent you. But when you look at your own sent you. But when you look at your own channel, the biggest trap I find is only channel, the biggest trap I find is only relying on views from your own channel relying on views from your own channel because obviously if the TAM is bigger because obviously if the TAM is bigger on a topic, you're going to get more on a topic, you're going to get more views. And so if you expand the TAM views. And so if you expand the TAM beyond the trust zone, those views are beyond the trust zone, those views are actually empty calories. And so that's actually empty calories. And so that's like just one anchoring methodology that like just one anchoring methodology that I think about is can we have enough lead I think about is can we have enough lead magnets in the ecosystem that we can magnets in the ecosystem that we can drive to a lead magnet on every video drive to a lead magnet on every video and then evaluate emails collected per and then evaluate emails collected per video. So I the Callaway marketing video. So I the Callaway marketing channel I've been running for I think channel I've been running for I think I'm 35 videos in and the goal is to get I'm 35 videos in and the goal is to get to 2x per day. We're doing one per day, to 2x per day. We're doing one per day, seven per week right now. Every single seven per week right now. Every single one of them I have a CTA. Every single one of them I have a CTA. Every single one of them I'm measuring. And what's one of them I'm measuring. And what's funny is not always are the highest view funny is not always are the highest view ones driving the most emails, which ones driving the most emails, which which is like you would you would which is like you would you would probably accept that to be true and same probably accept that to be true and same as me, but the average person would be as me, but the average person would be like, "Wa, I'd expect views equal like, "Wa, I'd expect views equal emails." It's not the case, right? It's emails." It's not the case, right? It's all about what's acrewing trust, what's all about what's acrewing trust, what's what's targeting a painoint people what's targeting a painoint people really have a need for, and then you really have a need for, and then you have a lead magnet complimenting. have a lead magnet complimenting. >> So, when you're doing these CTAs with >> So, when you're doing these CTAs with these lead magnets, are you reverse these lead magnets, are you reverse engineering a video topic based on a engineering a video topic based on a lead magnet you made? Do you have an lead magnet you made? Do you have an idea for a video you love and then you idea for a video you love and then you create a lead magnet for that and now create a lead magnet for that and now that's just in the bank and maybe we'll that's just in the bank and maybe we'll use it again when it makes sense in the use it again when it makes sense in the future. What's your order of operations? future. What's your order of operations? >> Yeah, so I've done it both ways. So I >> Yeah, so I've done it both ways. So I have an academy where I like teach my have an academy where I like teach my whole system to people and what I've whole system to people and what I've done is I've taken pieces of the done is I've taken pieces of the academy, extracted them out and turned academy, extracted them out and turned it into a lead magnet. So then I'm just it into a lead magnet. So then I'm just like I have that lead magnet made. If like I have that lead magnet made. If the topic suits it, I'll pull from it. the topic suits it, I'll pull from it. So I guess like step one is you have a So I guess like step one is you have a couple that you believe in. Right now, couple that you believe in. Right now, when if I were going to like what videos when if I were going to like what videos do you make, I wouldn't make them based do you make, I wouldn't make them based on the lead magnet. I would make them on the lead magnet. I would make them based on what I can talk about next, based on what I can talk about next, which is like how you actually identify which is like how you actually identify which topics are working. I would say which topics are working. I would say it's probably maybe we can get into this it's probably maybe we can get into this now in terms of like topics because one now in terms of like topics because one of the questions you asked is like of the questions you asked is like what's the most important thing to to to what's the most important thing to to to look for to to focus on? By far and look for to to focus on? By far and away, it's the idea of the video. Like away, it's the idea of the video. Like you can use almost any hook, any you can use almost any hook, any storytelling structure, any editing, any storytelling structure, any editing, any format. If you have a bad topic, and I format. If you have a bad topic, and I can talk about what bad and good looks can talk about what bad and good looks like, the video will fail. it'll it'll like, the video will fail. it'll it'll be medium at best, but if you have a be medium at best, but if you have a great topic, you can plug in almost any great topic, you can plug in almost any of those other things and it will almost of those other things and it will almost always work. So all like the 8020 9010 always work. So all like the 8020 9010 is can I pick topics that are validated, is can I pick topics that are validated, relevant to pain points they want and relevant to pain points they want and that I have a non-obvious contrarian that I have a non-obvious contrarian take about. So for me like if I had a take about. So for me like if I had a pie chart of where topics come from, I pie chart of where topics come from, I would say like at the beginning 70 to would say like at the beginning 70 to 80% comes from data for what other 80% comes from data for what other creators topically have talked about creators topically have talked about that have worked. and I'm looking at that have worked. and I'm looking at views because that's all I have access views because that's all I have access to. And so I'm informing my first couple to. And so I'm informing my first couple batches of content based on that 20% batches of content based on that 20% comes one out of every five comes from comes one out of every five comes from like an original idea where I'm just like an original idea where I'm just like let's just test this. That first like let's just test this. That first couple batches and I do batches of 10. couple batches and I do batches of 10. So let's say like 20 to 30 videos is all So let's say like 20 to 30 videos is all about testing. I'm basically just trying about testing. I'm basically just trying to validate which topics work best for to validate which topics work best for me. Once I then know that we we could me. Once I then know that we we could talk about like downstream, but you know talk about like downstream, but you know topics are the most important thing. And topics are the most important thing. And what I'll do is based on the topic that what I'll do is based on the topic that I choose, I'll then plug in whatever the I choose, I'll then plug in whatever the closest lead magnet would be to that closest lead magnet would be to that topic. The way I think of it is I don't topic. The way I think of it is I don't really want to spend every hour making really want to spend every hour making content. Like I'd rather live my life, content. Like I'd rather live my life, right? And so I'm trying to like right? And so I'm trying to like increase I'm trying to derisk my effort increase I'm trying to derisk my effort slash increase my hit rate. So every slash increase my hit rate. So every time I sit down, I want it to bang so time I sit down, I want it to bang so that I get the result so I don't have to that I get the result so I don't have to spend more hours doing it. That's kind spend more hours doing it. That's kind of like how I think of it. So it's the of like how I think of it. So it's the measure twice, cut once. Like what would measure twice, cut once. Like what would be the way to derisk? The way to derisk be the way to derisk? The way to derisk is to use data on the topics and then is to use data on the topics and then creativity on the contrarian insights. creativity on the contrarian insights. That combo is like that's what all the That combo is like that's what all the goat creators are doing. I mean on I goat creators are doing. I mean on I would say on YouTube and that's what I would say on YouTube and that's what I do on YouTube too on YouTube and short do on YouTube too on YouTube and short form. Uh and it makes it so much easier form. Uh and it makes it so much easier and that that's basically why I built and that that's basically why I built sand castles, right? So like for anyone sand castles, right? So like for anyone who knows Sandcastle.ai that's like my who knows Sandcastle.ai that's like my software tool AI tool that does a lot of software tool AI tool that does a lot of this for me. The reason why I built that this for me. The reason why I built that is because I went data first from the is because I went data first from the beginning because I really did not enjoy beginning because I really did not enjoy the process of spending 10 hours on a the process of spending 10 hours on a video and it failing. I like hated that video and it failing. I like hated that a lot. So I was which I'm sure everyone a lot. So I was which I'm sure everyone does obviously but I was like I can't do does obviously but I was like I can't do this forever. Like I can't do the this forever. Like I can't do the guessing. So I was like how do I use guessing. So I was like how do I use data but not make myself a clone that's data but not make myself a clone that's copy pasting everyone else's stuff copy pasting everyone else's stuff because I also think that's where you because I also think that's where you lose too. If you're a derivative you're lose too. If you're a derivative you're going to lose. So you have to be going to lose. So you have to be original but you have to fish in the original but you have to fish in the right ponds. That's that's the key right ponds. That's that's the key thing. If you're fishing in every pond, thing. If you're fishing in every pond, some ponds don't have fish. So, it's some ponds don't have fish. So, it's like, how do we figure out where to fish like, how do we figure out where to fish and then use our own technique, our own and then use our own technique, our own contrarian insight, our own, you know, contrarian insight, our own, you know, whatever the metaphor, our own boat to whatever the metaphor, our own boat to go get more fish, right? So, the way I go get more fish, right? So, the way I do it with sand castles, which I think do it with sand castles, which I think is the best way right now is, is the best way right now is, >> can you show us this? >> can you show us this? >> So, this is sand castles in the upper >> So, this is sand castles in the upper left, you can build like separate left, you can build like separate workspaces for different niches. So, workspaces for different niches. So, like you might want to say, okay, like you might want to say, okay, professional creators is like my main professional creators is like my main one, but you might have other like one, but you might have other like verticals you want to test if you want verticals you want to test if you want to if you want to partition them to if you want to partition them separately, right? So, this is my separately, right? So, this is my marketing workspace. Basically, the marketing workspace. Basically, the first thing you want to do is build this first thing you want to do is build this channel list. So, if you go to the channel list. So, if you go to the channels tab, I've got this list here of channels tab, I've got this list here of like all the top creators that I've come like all the top creators that I've come across or that I know of in my category. across or that I know of in my category. And like you, like I said, you can And like you, like I said, you can either build this one time or like over either build this one time or like over time. But how you would do it is maybe time. But how you would do it is maybe let's just delete all of these so I can let's just delete all of these so I can show you uh kind of the process from show you uh kind of the process from scratch. So, typically you would come in scratch. So, typically you would come in here and you'd be like, I don't know who here and you'd be like, I don't know who to add at all. So you go to describe and to add at all. So you go to describe and let's just say you're looking for like let's just say you're looking for like for me social media marketing and growth for me social media marketing and growth content and I can say I only want people content and I can say I only want people from Instagram or I only want people from Instagram or I only want people from micro and small cat which is like from micro and small cat which is like 10k followers to 250k. Now I'll go up to 10k followers to 250k. Now I'll go up to medium. The reason you want this micro medium. The reason you want this micro to medium range is because typically, to medium range is because typically, and this is like not intuitive, but if and this is like not intuitive, but if you track videos from massive people you track videos from massive people like Horosi, let's say, who has like like Horosi, let's say, who has like four or five million followers, four or five million followers, typically when he has an outlier, it's typically when he has an outlier, it's not necessarily just because the idea not necessarily just because the idea did so well. It's because he's so famous did so well. It's because he's so famous and has so much uh built-in like brand and has so much uh built-in like brand equity that people will like anything he equity that people will like anything he does. So, it's actually a counter signal does. So, it's actually a counter signal to study the huge people. You just won't to study the huge people. You just won't find the best ideas. Conversely, let's find the best ideas. Conversely, let's say you're not wellknown at all. If you say you're not wellknown at all. If you have a banger, that means the idea, the have a banger, that means the idea, the concept, the substance was the reason concept, the substance was the reason why. It's not because of your face why. It's not because of your face because nobody knows you, right? So, you because nobody knows you, right? So, you want to study people that are slightly want to study people that are slightly smaller in the that's where really the smaller in the that's where really the golden ideas come from. So, let's just golden ideas come from. So, let's just do like these three and we'll press do like these three and we'll press search. So, what Sand Castle does is it search. So, what Sand Castle does is it breaks whatever you gave it into three breaks whatever you gave it into three different buckets. So, in this case, different buckets. So, in this case, social media marketing, social media social media marketing, social media growth, marketing and growth strategies, growth, marketing and growth strategies, like they're all kind of derivatives of like they're all kind of derivatives of this. And this will give you the best this. And this will give you the best ranked channels that we have on our in ranked channels that we have on our in our database. We have like 100,000 our database. We have like 100,000 channels or so. And if you want to see channels or so. And if you want to see more, you can just load more. And the more, you can just load more. And the goal is you just highlight that or you goal is you just highlight that or you you you hover over these. And you if you you you hover over these. And you if you want to investigate these, you can just want to investigate these, you can just click and open it in a new tab. Boom. click and open it in a new tab. Boom. This person's in a new tab. I don't know This person's in a new tab. I don't know if it's sh it's probably not sharing, if it's sh it's probably not sharing, but like I open it. Boom. I see her but like I open it. Boom. I see her channel. Here it is. And what you want channel. Here it is. And what you want to do is build out your list. So I could to do is build out your list. So I could say like social with Philip. Boom. Press say like social with Philip. Boom. Press the plus and I build him out here. Now the plus and I build him out here. Now you can do this quickly by just pressing you can do this quickly by just pressing add all. And what we do in the add all. And what we do in the onboarding is like automatically build a onboarding is like automatically build a list of 20 for you. But I find like most list of 20 for you. But I find like most people want to tailor this pretty people want to tailor this pretty tightly. Now the cool the cool thing tightly. Now the cool the cool thing about a few like hidden features we have about a few like hidden features we have here is like let's say so uh Jaden is here is like let's say so uh Jaden is really dope. Like he's dope in the really dope. Like he's dope in the space. I've seen his stuff. So like I'm space. I've seen his stuff. So like I'm I'm going to add him. Now what's cool is I'm going to add him. Now what's cool is I can hit this little double arrows I can hit this little double arrows here. And what we'll do is make him the here. And what we'll do is make him the anchor. And now these are all the best anchor. And now these are all the best fits based on like closest to him. So if fits based on like closest to him. So if you let's say you're not good at you let's say you're not good at describing what you want to do, but you describing what you want to do, but you f you know there's one anchor person f you know there's one anchor person that you love, you can just go to him, that you love, you can just go to him, press this, boom, now this list is like press this, boom, now this list is like the closest possible thing to him. So I the closest possible thing to him. So I would just like add all these people in. would just like add all these people in. Right? So that's how that's one way to Right? So that's how that's one way to do it. The other way is if you know do it. The other way is if you know someone's good, like this girl Ava is someone's good, like this girl Ava is really good in the space. I'll just really good in the space. I'll just search her name, personal brand launch, search her name, personal brand launch, and if you just wait a second, it will and if you just wait a second, it will find her. So she's right here. Now, like find her. So she's right here. Now, like I said, we only have 100,000 channels. I said, we only have 100,000 channels. like these are top curated channels and like these are top curated channels and our users every time a user adds one it our users every time a user adds one it gets added to the database. But if gets added to the database. But if there's somebody that exists that you there's somebody that exists that you know should be there and they're not, it know should be there and they're not, it just means nobody has ever added them to just means nobody has ever added them to Sandcastle. So you can actually do it Sandcastle. So you can actually do it for free. You just go to add URL and you for free. You just go to add URL and you can type it in. So we have this. I'll go can type it in. So we have this. I'll go to parse. If we have you, the picture to parse. If we have you, the picture shows up. Boom. I add you. No problem. shows up. Boom. I add you. No problem. If we didn't have you, it would be like If we didn't have you, it would be like new channel and you can import it. And new channel and you can import it. And then when you import it, we'll take in then when you import it, we'll take in your full backlog, right? And so th this your full backlog, right? And so th this process of building out your list is process of building out your list is super valuable because now you can focus super valuable because now you can focus your attention, you can focus your your attention, you can focus your research attention on these channels research attention on these channels which you know to be good. So what I which you know to be good. So what I recommend for people is like almost recommend for people is like almost everybody knows at least one name of everybody knows at least one name of someone that's pretty pretty good in someone that's pretty pretty good in their niche. Start with that person, their niche. Start with that person, search them or add them and then just go search them or add them and then just go to this kind of refactor. And then once to this kind of refactor. And then once you hit this refactor, you can just be you hit this refactor, you can just be like, "Okay, boom. These are all the like, "Okay, boom. These are all the people that are really close to this people that are really close to this person." So we'll add a bunch in there. person." So we'll add a bunch in there. One thing that's interesting about this One thing that's interesting about this approach that's a little bit counter to approach that's a little bit counter to like the YouTube advice in a similar like the YouTube advice in a similar fashion is a lot of times the advice on fashion is a lot of times the advice on YouTube is like get outside your niche. YouTube is like get outside your niche. Find somebody who's doing something in Find somebody who's doing something in finance or gaming that's interesting and finance or gaming that's interesting and try to pull from their video ideas which try to pull from their video ideas which I think makes sense but I don't know it I think makes sense but I don't know it doesn't seem like it would translate doesn't seem like it would translate exactly to Instagram but I having a hard exactly to Instagram but I having a hard time articulating why that's true. time articulating why that's true. >> Yeah. So I think there's there's like >> Yeah. So I think there's there's like different buckets right. So when you do different buckets right. So when you do the YouTube research, if you're looking the YouTube research, if you're looking for topic inspiration or interest topics for topic inspiration or interest topics on YouTube, you need to have people that on YouTube, you need to have people that are in your space or like very close are in your space or like very close adjacent. But if you're looking for adjacent. But if you're looking for title formats or thumbnail inspiration title formats or thumbnail inspiration or series ideas, you can go broader, or series ideas, you can go broader, right? For example, if you were doing right? For example, if you were doing creator stuff, you typically wouldn't creator stuff, you typically wouldn't look in the ecom niche for like interest look in the ecom niche for like interest topics, but you could find a title topics, but you could find a title format that's crushing and then format that's crushing and then translate it over. It's kind of similar translate it over. It's kind of similar here where if you're looking for topics, here where if you're looking for topics, you need the topics to be within niche. you need the topics to be within niche. But if you want to look for formats or But if you want to look for formats or you want to look at editing styles or you want to look at editing styles or you want to look at hook hook, you know, you want to look at hook hook, you know, hook formats, you could do that outside hook formats, you could do that outside the niche as well. So what we found is the niche as well. So what we found is like most people have trouble building a like most people have trouble building a list outside of their core niche. Like list outside of their core niche. Like most people are not aware of like who's most people are not aware of like who's good, what's good, even like this good, what's good, even like this databacked process. So we try to keep it databacked process. So we try to keep it in niche and then you can I'll show you in niche and then you can I'll show you a couple things we have where you can a couple things we have where you can stumble across new stuff that's like stumble across new stuff that's like outside the niche. But this is this is outside the niche. But this is this is what I like to start with. So this is my what I like to start with. So this is my list. You can see I just I had a list on list. You can see I just I had a list on Excel. I just pasted all the URLs in. I Excel. I just pasted all the URLs in. I added them super quick. So this is the added them super quick. So this is the list that like I I like. So once you list that like I I like. So once you have this, then you go to the videos have this, then you go to the videos tab. And so this is the to to zoom out. tab. And so this is the to to zoom out. What we're doing here is we're breaking What we're doing here is we're breaking down how do you find the best performing down how do you find the best performing topics in your niche so that you know topics in your niche so that you know which ponds to fish in. So if you go to which ponds to fish in. So if you go to the videos tab, what you now see are the videos tab, what you now see are these are all the videos from just those these are all the videos from just those channels. And you know that because if channels. And you know that because if you click the channels filter, you can you click the channels filter, you can see the channels in here. So, if I see the channels in here. So, if I wanted to look at like just my channel, wanted to look at like just my channel, I would click my channel and then I've I would click my channel and then I've got boom, I got all the videos from just got boom, I got all the videos from just my channel in here. Now, the difference my channel in here. Now, the difference between this and like Instagram or Tik between this and like Instagram or Tik Tok proper is that I can filter and cut Tok proper is that I can filter and cut this data however I want. So, what I this data however I want. So, what I like to do is I'll go posted in the last like to do is I'll go posted in the last two months. I like to set engagement two months. I like to set engagement rate at 2% because that filters out the rate at 2% because that filters out the brand deals. Typically, if you have brand deals. Typically, if you have videos with super high views, but they videos with super high views, but they have 0% engagement, it's because people have 0% engagement, it's because people paid to boost the views. I don't want to paid to boost the views. I don't want to look at the brand deals because those look at the brand deals because those are that give me a that gives me a false are that give me a that gives me a false sense of what topics worked. So I just sense of what topics worked. So I just set this bottom engagement at 2%. set this bottom engagement at 2%. Anything below that filters out. And Anything below that filters out. And then what I do is I go to sort and I'll then what I do is I go to sort and I'll go either outlier score or views. go either outlier score or views. Slightly different ways of calculating Slightly different ways of calculating it, but let's just do outlier score. So it, but let's just do outlier score. So the outlier score, which is this green the outlier score, which is this green badge here, you can see like this one is badge here, you can see like this one is 8.2x. This means that the views of this 8.2x. This means that the views of this video were 8.2x 2x higher or above the video were 8.2x 2x higher or above the average views in the rolling 3 months average views in the rolling 3 months before this video was posted. We do before this video was posted. We do rolling three months so that if the rolling three months so that if the channel's dying, the outlier score kind channel's dying, the outlier score kind of gets recalculated. You don't get of gets recalculated. You don't get punished for like super fast or super punished for like super fast or super slow growth. But so an outlier score is slow growth. But so an outlier score is like a better apples to apples like a better apples to apples comparison across multiple channels. So comparison across multiple channels. So the beauty of this is like let's say I the beauty of this is like let's say I clear uh just this and I look at the clear uh just this and I look at the whole cohort. Now, this is in the last 2 whole cohort. Now, this is in the last 2 months sorted by outlier score across months sorted by outlier score across all these channels, the top performing all these channels, the top performing videos. So, like this is the the wise videos. So, like this is the the wise investor. I don't even know maybe that investor. I don't even know maybe that maybe he's on the channel, but there's maybe he's on the channel, but there's Ganon, uh, Peter Visuals, etc. So, you Ganon, uh, Peter Visuals, etc. So, you go through. So, now what you can do, go through. So, now what you can do, there's a few things that are like super there's a few things that are like super helpful. Let me let me go by newest so I helpful. Let me let me go by newest so I can show you this. When you see these can show you this. When you see these videos, the very first thing you're videos, the very first thing you're you're probably wanting to do is either you're probably wanting to do is either play it in a new tab, so you can just play it in a new tab, so you can just watch it. So you can just hover over and watch it. So you can just hover over and play a new tab like this. Or you want to play a new tab like this. Or you want to get deep analysis on this video, like get deep analysis on this video, like what is the transcript? How can I what is the transcript? How can I understand like what this video was understand like what this video was about? Right? And so if you just press about? Right? And so if you just press this analyze button, we will actually do this analyze button, we will actually do a deep analysis on this video. And if a deep analysis on this video. And if I'll just go back to one that I've I'll just go back to one that I've already analyzed. already analyzed. So like this one by Ganon, I can press So like this one by Ganon, I can press into it. You get the transcript, the into it. You get the transcript, the caption if you wanted is here. But then caption if you wanted is here. But then all this like deep analysis, right? So all this like deep analysis, right? So what is the topic? What was the the seed what is the topic? What was the the seed of the idea? The topic is like a 3 to of the idea? The topic is like a 3 to five word kind of description. This is five word kind of description. This is more like a single sentence description. more like a single sentence description. What is the unique angle of this video? What is the unique angle of this video? What is the common belief versus What is the common belief versus contrarian reality? This is like really contrarian reality? This is like really where curiosity comes from right here. where curiosity comes from right here. What kind of like core facts or evidence What kind of like core facts or evidence did he put in this video? Then we go to did he put in this video? Then we go to the hook. What was the formula for the the hook. What was the formula for the hook? What was the exact hook? What was hook? What was the exact hook? What was the analysis of why this hooked work? the analysis of why this hooked work? What is the category of the hook? What is the category of the hook? Storytelling, same thing. Category, what Storytelling, same thing. Category, what what the storytelling structure was? what the storytelling structure was? Visuals as well. So the whole point is Visuals as well. So the whole point is like now you're getting all of the deep like now you're getting all of the deep analysis on this video. We're both analysis on this video. We're both taking the transcript and literally taking the transcript and literally watching it with a vision model and watching it with a vision model and giving you insights on this. Now at an giving you insights on this. Now at an individual level, you could be like, individual level, you could be like, "Oh, cool." Like I'm just going to A lot "Oh, cool." Like I'm just going to A lot of people just use sand castles like of people just use sand castles like this. They come in, they filter, they this. They come in, they filter, they sort by outlier score, and literally sort by outlier score, and literally they just watch each one. They're just they just watch each one. They're just like, "Watch, watch, watch." And and like, "Watch, watch, watch." And and they like watching it themselves. They they like watching it themselves. They don't even want the detailed analysis. don't even want the detailed analysis. This alone prevents you from having to This alone prevents you from having to scroll to find ideas and now you can see scroll to find ideas and now you can see the best performers. I'll I'll expand on the best performers. I'll I'll expand on what I would look what I would take from what I would look what I would take from this verse not to keep it original, but this verse not to keep it original, but like that's that's like the lightest like that's that's like the lightest weight way to do it. The more advanced weight way to do it. The more advanced way is once you analyze a bunch of these way is once you analyze a bunch of these and you can go one at a time or you can and you can go one at a time or you can press bulk analyze like you know let's press bulk analyze like you know let's say you wanted to analyze my channel. say you wanted to analyze my channel. You would just search my channel. You You would just search my channel. You could say bulk analyze 50 videos or you could say bulk analyze 50 videos or you know you could look and say okay that know you could look and say okay that looks like there's 25 in the last three looks like there's 25 in the last three weeks. I'm just going to bulk analyze weeks. I'm just going to bulk analyze 25. Once you have all these analyzed you 25. Once you have all these analyzed you can either export the data as a CSV and can either export the data as a CSV and feed that into Claude or you can use our feed that into Claude or you can use our MCP which connects Sand Castles directly MCP which connects Sand Castles directly to Claude. You can just install it in to Claude. You can just install it in like 30 seconds. I can I can link a like 30 seconds. I can I can link a video if people want. And then in Claude video if people want. And then in Claude I can say look at the last 30 videos I can say look at the last 30 videos from Callaway Marketing's channel. Make from Callaway Marketing's channel. Make sure they're all deep analyzed. give me sure they're all deep analyzed. give me a full report of like a breakdown of the a full report of like a breakdown of the topics, the hooks, etc. Right? So, topics, the hooks, etc. Right? So, there's so much you can do with this there's so much you can do with this data individually and as a cohort. data individually and as a cohort. >> So, you're coming in here for Callaway >> So, you're coming in here for Callaway Marketing and you're doing your uh your Marketing and you're doing your uh your filtering, your sorting, you have a filtering, your sorting, you have a short list by outlier score. When do you short list by outlier score. When do you stop and say like, "Yep, that's one I'm stop and say like, "Yep, that's one I'm going to do." Is it something that like going to do." Is it something that like inspiration hits or are you doing a inspiration hits or are you doing a minimum 10 and then saying, "Okay, which minimum 10 and then saying, "Okay, which one of these did did I feel best?" one of these did did I feel best?" What's your process from here? So What's your process from here? So there's so there's two paths. There's there's so there's two paths. There's looking at what competitors are doing to looking at what competitors are doing to get new ideas and then there's looking get new ideas and then there's looking at your own channel to understand all at your own channel to understand all the other stuff that's working really the other stuff that's working really well. So like which videos did I make well. So like which videos did I make that crushed? What hooks are working? that crushed? What hooks are working? What formats are working, right? So I I What formats are working, right? So I I kind of like do both separately, per se. kind of like do both separately, per se. So I've got a guy on my team um that So I've got a guy on my team um that literally just does the idea stuff all literally just does the idea stuff all day long. So, he's looking at all of day long. So, he's looking at all of these competitor channels and he's like these competitor channels and he's like trying to like he looks at this this trying to like he looks at this this view right here and sometimes he'll go view right here and sometimes he'll go uh last, you know, 30 days. Sometimes uh last, you know, 30 days. Sometimes he'll go further out. It depends on like he'll go further out. It depends on like for your niche and my niche. This is for your niche and my niche. This is pretty evergreen. So, you can go back pretty evergreen. So, you can go back like four four six months and still get like four four six months and still get good ideas. For newsbased niches where good ideas. For newsbased niches where you need more like real-time stuff, you need more like real-time stuff, he'll do 14 days or seven days like for he'll do 14 days or seven days like for tech. So, he'll look at this and he'll tech. So, he'll look at this and he'll open this video and he'll be like, open this video and he'll be like, "Okay, is the topic of this interesting "Okay, is the topic of this interesting to him?" First of all, like because I've to him?" First of all, like because I've kind of trained him on like what kind of trained him on like what interesting looks like just like are you interesting looks like just like are you curious about this period? Okay. Number curious about this period? Okay. Number two, do we have something relevant and two, do we have something relevant and non-obvious to say about this general non-obvious to say about this general topic? So, like let's just look at this topic? So, like let's just look at this one right here. So, we'll open this. So, one right here. So, we'll open this. So, let's just watch this. let's just watch this. This video got nearly 25 million views. This video got nearly 25 million views. [music] That's over 200 times more views [music] That's over 200 times more views than the creator's regular content. And than the creator's regular content. And the reason comes down to one thing. Your the reason comes down to one thing. Your brain is always trying to guess what brain is always trying to guess what happens [music] next in a So this is happens [music] next in a So this is basically like a a hook case study where basically like a a hook case study where he's explaining the hook or psychology he's explaining the hook or psychology of this, right? So my my guy or you or of this, right? So my my guy or you or anyone who's doing this, right, would be anyone who's doing this, right, would be like, okay, this is a breakdown of an like, okay, this is a breakdown of an example video that had a viral hook that example video that had a viral hook that had traction that he explained how to do had traction that he explained how to do it. So, the close clone, which I don't it. So, the close clone, which I don't really like doing close clones, would be really like doing close clones, would be like, let's take this exact same video like, let's take this exact same video and make a like this exact same example and make a like this exact same example and make our own spin on it where we and make our own spin on it where we break down the hook, but in a different break down the hook, but in a different way. We say different stuff. To me, way. We say different stuff. To me, that's still too close. I want to be that's still too close. I want to be more unique. So, I would say, okay, more unique. So, I would say, okay, interesting. The style that he went interesting. The style that he went through to explain this is he started through to explain this is he started with the hook itself of of the example. with the hook itself of of the example. He played it without saying anything. He played it without saying anything. Then, he introduced what it was and Then, he introduced what it was and broke it down. Could we run a similar broke it down. Could we run a similar flow like that, a similar story flow like that, a similar story structure, but using a different structure, but using a different example? Do we have a different example? example? Do we have a different example? Do I have unique insights to say on a Do I have unique insights to say on a different example? That would like start different example? That would like start the process. So, if if my uh my like the process. So, if if my uh my like head of content pulled this and he he head of content pulled this and he he thought we would have something good, he thought we would have something good, he would put it in the list for us to would put it in the list for us to review. If he thought it was like too review. If he thought it was like too junk foody, he would pass, right? But junk foody, he would pass, right? But the reason why like that's helpful is the reason why like that's helpful is all these are on target and they're the all these are on target and they're the best performers by the people in my best performers by the people in my niche. So it just focuses your yes no niche. So it just focuses your yes no process super dialed. So he'll do this process super dialed. So he'll do this uh daily or every other day and he uh daily or every other day and he builds a Google doc that has tabs on the builds a Google doc that has tabs on the side and every tab is like a separate side and every tab is like a separate idea. He's only putting the ones on idea. He's only putting the ones on there that he thinks we have something there that he thinks we have something good to say, right? And it's based on good to say, right? And it's based on the whole corp like I've just trained the whole corp like I've just trained him over time like the whole corpus of him over time like the whole corpus of everything I believe. He's seen all my everything I believe. He's seen all my YouTube videos. He knows kind of like YouTube videos. He knows kind of like our isms, let's say. Then we get on a our isms, let's say. Then we get on a call. I like to do it twice a week where call. I like to do it twice a week where he'll pitch me each one and be like, he'll pitch me each one and be like, "Here's what I found. This crushed. "Here's what I found. This crushed. Here's what I think we could do. What do Here's what I think we could do. What do you think?" If I don't have something you think?" If I don't have something unique to say that's like contrarian and unique to say that's like contrarian and interesting, we kill it. If I do have interesting, we kill it. If I do have something unique to say and I'm like, something unique to say and I'm like, "Ooh, that's cool. We should use this "Ooh, that's cool. We should use this other video as the example." Or, "Ooh, other video as the example." Or, "Ooh, we could bring in this one framework we could bring in this one framework that I talk about and like, you know, that I talk about and like, you know, I'll I'll construct it." We we green I'll I'll construct it." We we green light it and we put it into like light it and we put it into like approved bucket. We'll go through that approved bucket. We'll go through that call like we just did one today for an call like we just did one today for an hour or so. And what that gives us is hour or so. And what that gives us is like eight to 10 approved ideas where like eight to 10 approved ideas where they're validated by data. I know we they're validated by data. I know we have something interesting. We went back have something interesting. We went back and forth for five minutes on the call and forth for five minutes on the call for each idea and like kind of for each idea and like kind of brainstorm the best option. And then brainstorm the best option. And then from there I know I can go into the from there I know I can go into the scripting phase. So that's kind of like scripting phase. So that's kind of like the research flow. Now he's most for the research flow. Now he's most for short form mostly he's using sand short form mostly he's using sand castles. Like he doesn't really scroll castles. Like he doesn't really scroll that much. Uh for YouTube he's looking that much. Uh for YouTube he's looking at uh or like for for tech ideas he's at uh or like for for tech ideas he's looking at Twitter and other other looking at Twitter and other other things like that like email newsletters things like that like email newsletters around tech. But for like Callaway around tech. But for like Callaway marketing, the marketing ideas, he's marketing, the marketing ideas, he's pretty much just looking at this. So pretty much just looking at this. So that's the how do we get new ideas just that's the how do we get new ideas just on the topic front. on the topic front. >> How are people doing this before they >> How are people doing this before they there was a tool like this? Were they there was a tool like this? Were they just like just like >> manually? >> manually? >> Manually with like uh bookmarks and >> Manually with like uh bookmarks and folders folders >> and spending a lot of time on their >> and spending a lot of time on their phone. phone. >> Yeah. like they either had a person like >> Yeah. like they either had a person like a social media strategist or them and a social media strategist or them and they were scrolling for like two to they were scrolling for like two to three hours a day and they were having three hours a day and they were having to go through all the noise, all the to go through all the noise, all the nonsense is not on target and then nonsense is not on target and then they'd have to see all the ones that are they'd have to see all the ones that are like mid- performers. Then finally like mid- performers. Then finally they'd get to some bangers and the ratio they'd get to some bangers and the ratio from my research was like one out of 10 from my research was like one out of 10 or one out of 20 would be like even or one out of 20 would be like even close to potentially relevant and then close to potentially relevant and then you'd have to see it. You'd you'd you'd have to see it. You'd you'd bookmark it or you'd save the link into bookmark it or you'd save the link into a notes file. You'd have a bunch and a notes file. You'd have a bunch and then you'd go through this process of then you'd go through this process of like is it relevant? Is it not? So, this like is it relevant? Is it not? So, this just speeds up a lot of the research just speeds up a lot of the research time. So, you don't have to spend all time. So, you don't have to spend all that time doing the the finding. Right that time doing the the finding. Right now, we also have like this automations now, we also have like this automations feature, which I think is pretty sick. feature, which I think is pretty sick. You can set up these rules that will You can set up these rules that will automatically deep analyze whichever automatically deep analyze whichever videos you want based on the conditions. videos you want based on the conditions. Right? So, what I'll do is we have this Right? So, what I'll do is we have this one on that says for any of the channels one on that says for any of the channels in our list, as long as there's a 5x in our list, as long as there's a 5x outlier score on the video and it has outlier score on the video and it has above 2% engagement, we want you to above 2% engagement, we want you to autoprocess it. So it'll automatically autoprocess it. So it'll automatically be analyzed. And what that means is when be analyzed. And what that means is when it's analyzed, it's ready to be pulled it's analyzed, it's ready to be pulled from in Claude, right? Because we have from in Claude, right? Because we have the MCP set up. So we could just set up the MCP set up. So we could just set up a daily scrape that's like, give me the a daily scrape that's like, give me the best performing videos of the day today, best performing videos of the day today, every day. And we could set that up as a every day. And we could set that up as a scheduled task. It can do that. I mean, scheduled task. It can do that. I mean, it could it could just give you the it could it could just give you the video to like link out without analyzing video to like link out without analyzing it. But by analyzing it, we can also it. But by analyzing it, we can also have it say, "What are the common topics have it say, "What are the common topics that are working?" And it can just know that are working?" And it can just know because it's already done all this because it's already done all this analysis for you automatically. So, this analysis for you automatically. So, this is just like one way to speed it up cuz is just like one way to speed it up cuz you you can tell like my whole thing is you you can tell like my whole thing is like how do we speed this up as fast as like how do we speed this up as fast as possible and get as much signal as we possible and get as much signal as we can in the workflow. can in the workflow. >> This clearly solves my topic ideation >> This clearly solves my topic ideation and even to a degree hook problem and even to a degree hook problem because I can see how this is working. because I can see how this is working. The next place where I feel like I would The next place where I feel like I would fall down is if the video is too long or fall down is if the video is too long or in some way like the structure of the in some way like the structure of the whole video goes off the rails. Is the whole video goes off the rails. Is the answer to just use this analyze feature answer to just use this analyze feature and look at the structure of these and and look at the structure of these and make sure I'm following fairly closely make sure I'm following fairly closely to it and then just be relentless in the to it and then just be relentless in the edit. edit. >> Yeah. So, there's two ways. So, when >> Yeah. So, there's two ways. So, when you're when you're first starting and you're when you're first starting and you don't have a ton of your own data, you don't have a ton of your own data, like you don't have a ton of your own like you don't have a ton of your own videos, the best way would be find a videos, the best way would be find a creator that you like, like let's say creator that you like, like let's say Ganon, find the a creator where you like Ganon, find the a creator where you like the flow of. It's not like you like the the flow of. It's not like you like the look of his stuff cuz that's the look of his stuff cuz that's the visuals. It's more like you like the way visuals. It's more like you like the way he explains stuff, you like the flow of he explains stuff, you like the flow of his storytelling. You can use this his storytelling. You can use this transcript and you can either look just transcript and you can either look just look at it and be like, "Okay, roughly look at it and be like, "Okay, roughly speaking, these are the sections." We speaking, these are the sections." We also have a feature right here that's also have a feature right here that's show sections. You just press this. So, show sections. You just press this. So, it breaks it down into like the five it breaks it down into like the five parts or they're not always five, but parts or they're not always five, but this in this case there's five parts. this in this case there's five parts. So, you could then say, "Okay, cool." So, you could then say, "Okay, cool." Like, if I'm going to storytell, but I Like, if I'm going to storytell, but I don't want to I don't want to copy his don't want to I don't want to copy his stuff. We need a hook. We need an intro stuff. We need a hook. We need an intro to the series. Then, in this case, he's to the series. Then, in this case, he's doing a setup tutorial. There's a live doing a setup tutorial. There's a live demo and a payoff. So, like at the at demo and a payoff. So, like at the at the roughest strokes, you could copy the roughest strokes, you could copy that structure. At the most detailed that structure. At the most detailed strokes, you could take his exact script strokes, you could take his exact script and then try to translate it into your and then try to translate it into your own. Now, you could do this manually or own. Now, you could do this manually or of course you can take a hundred scripts of course you can take a hundred scripts from Ganon, put it into Claude and be from Ganon, put it into Claude and be like, I want to understand what the best like, I want to understand what the best performing structures are storytelling performing structures are storytelling wise from the scripts. Make me a skill wise from the scripts. Make me a skill file template and then when I jump in a file template and then when I jump in a topic, write a script for me in that topic, write a script for me in that way. Now, I likely would not just just way. Now, I likely would not just just go with that. Like, I would take that go with that. Like, I would take that and then I'd tweak it. That's going to and then I'd tweak it. That's going to be 90% of the way there. But that gets be 90% of the way there. But that gets you again like it puts guard rails on you again like it puts guard rails on what you should do when you don't know what you should do when you don't know what I recommend doing once you have a what I recommend doing once you have a minimum amount of videos for yourself minimum amount of videos for yourself like 10 to 20 videos you know let's go like 10 to 20 videos you know let's go to mine I have all of my videos analyzed to mine I have all of my videos analyzed so of course I can look one by one like so of course I can look one by one like if I sort by outlier score my eye is if I sort by outlier score my eye is trained on content now where I can see trained on content now where I can see like let me go 60 days so we have all of like let me go 60 days so we have all of them in there I can see like okay this them in there I can see like okay this was about kind of content strategy this was about kind of content strategy this was about AI tools this was about was about AI tools this was about storytelling this was about formats This storytelling this was about formats This is about strategy. Strategy. This one I is about strategy. Strategy. This one I think is storytelling. Storytelling. So think is storytelling. Storytelling. So I'm starting to see like common buckets I'm starting to see like common buckets like I can just look at it and see. But like I can just look at it and see. But on the on the story structure side, the on the on the story structure side, the storytelling like with the script, you storytelling like with the script, you could just take these and once they're could just take these and once they're analyzed, you can again like export the analyzed, you can again like export the data or use claude and just say, "Hey, data or use claude and just say, "Hey, I've made 20 videos. Can you look at the I've made 20 videos. Can you look at the top the top five performers and just top the top five performers and just help me understand like what is the help me understand like what is the common structure or flow of the script common structure or flow of the script that's working well for me? let's turn that's working well for me? let's turn that into a template or turn that into a that into a template or turn that into a skill file and then when I feed you a skill file and then when I feed you a new topic, can you write the script or new topic, can you write the script or at least guide me into what those at least guide me into what those buckets should be? To your point, like buckets should be? To your point, like that'll that'll speed up a lot of the that'll that'll speed up a lot of the confusion. I still think you need like confusion. I still think you need like writing is the number one creative tool. writing is the number one creative tool. Like I believe writing is the most Like I believe writing is the most important skill. I think you believe important skill. I think you believe that as well. So I never want to like that as well. So I never want to like fully outsource every word I say to fully outsource every word I say to this, but like as a as a 75 85 90% of this, but like as a as a 75 85 90% of the way their first draft automatic, the way their first draft automatic, it's pretty sick. And then you can tweak it's pretty sick. And then you can tweak from there. Yeah, I agree. Um the the from there. Yeah, I agree. Um the the conflicting feelings that I get when I conflicting feelings that I get when I think about processes like this is if think about processes like this is if you remove all of your own creative work you remove all of your own creative work and writing from it, which you totally and writing from it, which you totally could. Like I could make this totally could. Like I could make this totally data driven and totally like automated data driven and totally like automated formula formula >> from this and it would probably get >> from this and it would probably get results and I just know that would be results and I just know that would be like not satisfying for me either. Like like not satisfying for me either. Like what I like about these this analyze what I like about these this analyze tools and these headers that you have in tools and these headers that you have in this transcript, I can teach myself to this transcript, I can teach myself to fish with this tool. I don't have to let fish with this tool. I don't have to let the tool fish for me. the tool fish for me. >> Exactly. The way I like to think of it >> Exactly. The way I like to think of it is so in in the content workflow, you've is so in in the content workflow, you've got topic, you've got research or like got topic, you've got research or like substance, you've got hook, script, substance, you've got hook, script, record, edit, post. In each of those record, edit, post. In each of those little little modules within the flow, little little modules within the flow, you can decide to turn it all the way to you can decide to turn it all the way to 100 on data or all the way to zero on 100 on data or all the way to zero on manual. and you can pick where you want. manual. and you can pick where you want. So like for me, where I'm at right now So like for me, where I'm at right now is I really like using 100% data to is I really like using 100% data to guide me on the topic buckets so that I guide me on the topic buckets so that I know where to start fishing. Then I look know where to start fishing. Then I look at my own my own data. Like the most at my own my own data. Like the most valuable thing like just on YouTube, the valuable thing like just on YouTube, the most valuable data for you on YouTube is most valuable data for you on YouTube is your own channel. Same thing here. But your own channel. Same thing here. But until you have your own data, you just until you have your own data, you just guiding on the topics that make the most guiding on the topics that make the most sense from other people is the best way sense from other people is the best way to do it. For substance, the contrarian to do it. For substance, the contrarian insight, I'm relying on my creativity. insight, I'm relying on my creativity. I'm not really like taking other I'm not really like taking other people's insights cuz I find that's people's insights cuz I find that's really like the sauce that makes it really like the sauce that makes it unique and that's the creative challenge unique and that's the creative challenge for me is like okay how do I take this for me is like okay how do I take this 30 days of content topic and make it 30 days of content topic and make it unique. So I came up with this new unique. So I came up with this new mechanism and like that did pretty well. mechanism and like that did pretty well. So on the substance I'm doing it full So on the substance I'm doing it full creativity on the hooks and the creativity on the hooks and the scripting. What exactly what you said is scripting. What exactly what you said is where I'm at which is like the goal is where I'm at which is like the goal is to make your brain full of what works so to make your brain full of what works so that when you flow naturally creatively that when you flow naturally creatively it's already infused in there, right? So it's already infused in there, right? So like you just when I look at this I'm like you just when I look at this I'm like okay let me study right here. Let like okay let me study right here. Let me study what this is. When I make me study what this is. When I make another one I don't copy paste it. I another one I don't copy paste it. I just read it just like copy work or like just read it just like copy work or like any form of training yourself on a any form of training yourself on a skill. I'm reading it and I'm like, "Oh, skill. I'm reading it and I'm like, "Oh, okay. I see like how that flowed and okay. I see like how that flowed and that didn't. Okay, now I know." So, when that didn't. Okay, now I know." So, when I go to write from scratch, it's kind of I go to write from scratch, it's kind of like in my brain already. The way of like in my brain already. The way of doing this, that's the like most manual doing this, that's the like most manual way to use data, but still be fully way to use data, but still be fully creative. You can of course dial that a creative. You can of course dial that a little bit more where it's like, cool, little bit more where it's like, cool, I'm going to start copy pasting this one I'm going to start copy pasting this one that worked. It's my own words, but like that worked. It's my own words, but like I'm going to start here and then edit I'm going to start here and then edit around it. The the full automated would around it. The the full automated would be like literally just rip this and be like literally just rip this and change a couple words. So to your point, change a couple words. So to your point, you can season to taste on this you can season to taste on this depending on how much creative depending on how much creative expression you want. I don't think you expression you want. I don't think you can fully build an AI factory pumping it can fully build an AI factory pumping it out with zero creativity and cut out with zero creativity and cut through. I just think there's too much through. I just think there's too much supply and it's going to trend towards supply and it's going to trend towards average because most people are doing average because most people are doing that and they're coming up with the same that and they're coming up with the same stuff. So this is where like I call it stuff. So this is where like I call it data enabled creativity. That's my like data enabled creativity. That's my like big theme or thesis that I believe in is big theme or thesis that I believe in is like using the data to guide you and like using the data to guide you and then allowing basically freeing up all then allowing basically freeing up all of your time to be creative and using of your time to be creative and using data for everything else. What if I took data for everything else. What if I took one of your uh one of these videos that one of your uh one of these videos that we're looking at on screen right now and we're looking at on screen right now and I removed all visuals? The cut stayed I removed all visuals? The cut stayed there, but it was just you and it was there, but it was just you and it was just captions. How big of an impact do just captions. How big of an impact do you think that would make on the you think that would make on the performance of that video? performance of that video? >> A pure yap with zero graphics, which is >> A pure yap with zero graphics, which is kind of what you're describing, right? kind of what you're describing, right? like full A-roll U and captions ba like full A-roll U and captions ba basically the way I the the framework I basically the way I the the framework I use to look at this is like a picture is use to look at this is like a picture is worth a thousand words right so if you worth a thousand words right so if you have no visuals on the screen you're have no visuals on the screen you're relying on the viewer's imagination to relying on the viewer's imagination to to come up with if they're a visual to come up with if they're a visual learner like I am they have to imagine learner like I am they have to imagine what you're saying and try to get what you're saying and try to get comprehension from that more technical comprehension from that more technical or the more complex or the more like out or the more complex or the more like out there ideas you're talking about the there ideas you're talking about the harder it is for people to imagine it's harder it is for people to imagine it's a spectrum right it's like the more work a spectrum right it's like the more work you the more frontend effort you apply you the more frontend effort you apply to the production, the le the the easier to the production, the le the the easier it is to carve a moat visually because it is to carve a moat visually because there's just less people putting in that there's just less people putting in that time. However, to your point, the more time. However, to your point, the more resource intensive it is. So, you have resource intensive it is. So, you have to just experiment along that spectrum to just experiment along that spectrum and figure out what you are happy with and figure out what you are happy with and then ultimately what converts into and then ultimately what converts into emails. That's that's a really critical emails. That's that's a really critical thing too. thing too. >> Amazing. Well, I will link sand castles >> Amazing. Well, I will link sand castles in the description for this. That's in the description for this. That's fantastic. fantastic. >> If you're a business owner, hopefully >> If you're a business owner, hopefully this is helpful to you. Definitely free this is helpful to you. Definitely free stuff below, so feel free to check it stuff below, so feel free to check it out. Now that you've seen exactly how out. Now that you've seen exactly how Callaway structures his content Callaway structures his content research, you'll love seeing behind the research, you'll love seeing behind the scenes with Riley Brown, too.
