Today we're going to talk about how this is potentially the last summer to lock in the skills and approach you have to not be caught in the quote unquote creative underclass. If you want to be a true oneperson marketing army for your business or another business, how exactly to do it. This is a bit of a different video for me. You usually don't hear me with any degree of fear in terms of how I talk about branding, marketing, social media, but we are in a pretty strange time currently. But also, I want to have you take tactical takeaways from this that are super useful. This will be the first time that we brought the whiteboard out. I've got the overhead rig when we actually map out tactics for you here today. We're going to do this all on the whiteboard and give you an exact blueprint for efficiency in marketing, entrepreneurship, and creative work.

Let's lock in. So, first of all, you may have noticed online on social media, there is a trend happening right now. And a lot of it was sparked by Steven Bartlett rather notoriously saying that uh if he had a glass of wine because of how optimized he is, he would be thrown off for like 3 days. And so a lot of creators and people hopped on this and mocked this rightfully so. Ridiculous statement. And it led to this big bent you've seen in relatively viral content about anti-optimization. While that podcast clip may have been the catalyst, this actually happens every single year around miday to mid June. You will notice content starts to tank.

Especially if you make serious content, content with business value, content you're promoting your stuff, trying to make sales, LinkedIn, Instagram, even YouTube, numbers start to go down. And this is because it starts to get warm outside. People have Memorial Day. They start thinking about summer vacation. and some offices start summer Fridays and the desire to work drops. But because of social media and the way algorithms work, this also becomes a pretty massive scop. So you'll notice a lot of like media elite influencers like New York influencers, people with Substacks, people that pontificate a lot immediately hopped on this trend. They started making videos about how optimization is killing us, how you should feel free to have a couple drinks, don't take things too seriously.

But they're not saying that cuz they believe it. They're saying it because it works in the social media algorithms. Every summer, if you make what we call excuse content, you get a massive spike. And so, it makes sense they'd all shift to this. But then it makes you feel, you start getting these messages subconsciously in your feed constantly that, yeah, you know what? I should take some time off. I do need more work life balance, whatever it is, which honestly is totally fine as a message for most people most of the time, but in my opinion, not particularly right now. So, last summer was one of the most unproductive summers of all time for almost everyone I knew. Euro summer was in full effect. People were vacationing, offices were closing early, people were really embracing life. And what was interesting about that and I was talking about this at the conference I spoke at the other week in London. I was meeting with a lot of friends of mine who have brands or work at brands is about that summer productivity fall off. But what's interesting is this is going into year five of this. You basically had 2022, 23, 24, 25, and now 26. All postcoid reaction where naturally as people have been locked inside and frustrated with the world around them, they want to be outside more doing more things. But the first few years is a reaction. 5 years is a habit. And the hard part about this is it now comes at this time of what we'll call AI job loss where brands are cutting 18% of their workforce. 9% 10% 20%. And they're using AI as the scapegoat. The CEOs of these AI companies have made that very easy. It is inescapable to not go on TV or read the news and see Daario or somebody basically saying that the white collar job class is going to be disintegrated by AI. They are preaching that themselves, which is a bad comm strategy, at least to the consumer. But really what it's done is given these leaders an excuse to rightsize their orgs. Everyone who says this is about cutting jobs through the AI, it's not.

Those orgs are not seeing that uplift in value. I can almost guaranteed if you work inside a company that's adopting AI, you've not seen that increase in value. Sure, maybe there's this or that, but it's not 20% of your workforce. What they're doing is they've realized that culturally over the last few years a lot of these businesses have adopted processes, management layers, hiring practices, efficiency, and guidelines that's made them radically inefficient.

And they are doing whatever excuse they can to rightsize the ship while everyone else is doing it, which leads to a flood of people in the job market. And it's a flood of people that are all used to that kind of job who are expecting when they get a new job, it's going to be similar to their old one and the expectations. But those expectations are shifting because you've noticed every time you see companies get disrupted by a new generation of companies, they have an efficiency. So for instance, uh when I started making content four or five years ago, all this new wave of brands was coming about that had discovered that they could source products from overseas just as good as these bigger brands and Alibaba enabled this. Social media let them reach them directly. Meta ads worked fine. They could literally with a much smaller org and less investment create something on par to a major brand at a similar price point.

And a whole generation of brands were created this way over these last few years. Now, a lot of those brands to succeed built out relatively decentsized teams. And what you're seeing now is you're seeing these ultra lean teams do the same thing. Some degree because of AI, but some degree also because people are relentlessly focused on the metrics that determine success. And so you've seen a new generation of brands, products, services, etc. that are really lean teams that work very hard, but are very efficient in their work displacing those previous 5 years of brand. And this is because that overspend era is done. What entrepreneurs are realizing is that all these big bloated companies that have their technical and process debt. So what that means is that if you have been investing in all these systems you spend all this money on but they're not as good as new systems or you built out all these people and situations but it's not as efficient as what a new company could do to start it. That is a debt that companies have to recover from. They are going to every day execute on these antiquated processes and technologies. They're going to lead them to perform less efficiently. And for anyone new to succeed, they have to be against that. They are against this overspend error. And you multiply all this together, how many people are applying for jobs? How many of these new companies are now relentlessly focused on efficiency and old companies are trying to rightsize? And this widening gap between the chillers and the hitters, people that put in a lot of work wherever they are, who know all these new skills that I'm going to talk about here that have embraced whatever technology that know how to be efficient and drive results and money inside wherever they work, whether that's a marketer, a creator, a salesperson, a creative engineer, whatever it is. And with now more and more AI being used by HR to sort through resumes, it's going to be ultra competitive to get whatever jobs there are. You've heard me talk a lot about over the last few years how you can differentiate yourself by being a creator, establishing a personal brand on LinkedIn, on Instagram, etc. And if you've done that over the last few years, you're reaping those benefits right now because you are able to circumvent those lines. But if you're new and you're starting right now, what you'll notice is in the last like 60 days, a lot of the gurus who preach content creation have switched everything to a Claude will solve your problems for you approach. write everything with AI. And we've seen this flood now of these AI creators all sound alike. All the content looks relatively the same. Everything on LinkedIn kind of sounds the same. And it performs at this like midbaseline standard where it doesn't ever break out, but it fills up.

It clutters everything with noise. And you'll see I have a pretty strong reaction. It's probably a separate video I have about how I don't think you should be using a lot of those tools for your personal brand. But it now closes the window. We've talked about how long do we have before personal brand matters or not. And now I think we are hitting this top of the bell curve, right? Where you sort of have you're getting into that arc. We're entering into a timeline of where you still have efficacy to start. And if you started, how you cement yourself as someone who belongs versus falling off. And all of that plays into this summer cuz because this becomes one of the last time periods to make it into content creation before saturation. If you are already doing that, to gasp pedal it before that saturation to make sure you don't kind of fall off and this mid-level rises to not fall into the back end of the technology and process is making these companies win right now. And then if you do have a brand or you're trying to hit your numbers for this year, Q4 starts now. If you want to execute your T5 uh your your Black Friday to Cyber Monday timing, you want to order the right products, have everything in, have your promotions there, have your campaigns laid out, if you want to nail the rest of the year, that is a summer exercise.

If you start at end of September when everyone's back in the office and fully working in the right way, you're too late. And I want to put that out there cuz to me that signals that this is one of the last summers to lock in before this becomes really, really, really, really hard. And no one wants to hear that. They want the excuse content, right? You want to know, you can check out and that's fine for depending on whose life you lead, what you want out of life. You do whatever you like. But if you want to lock in right now, I want to explain this oneperson marketing or that's such a popular concept. Break down an exact format what you need to know and how you need to operate to be effective in 2026. So to go through that, I'm going to bring the whiteboard out. We are going to talk through this is any business. I know a lot of my videos focus on product businesses, but I'm going to talk about this from the lens of services businesses, B2B, software, product, any org. We're going to talk through establishing your product and process to be successful for word of mouth and referral. We're going to talk about messages, scaling, information release, developing new creative, performance, marketing, email and CRM, influencer, and structuring your week as a small or or single person to effectively execute on all this.

Probably one of my favorite videos I've uh I've put together cuz I've done this a bunch, right? I still operate all the marketing at our women's wear clothing brand on the side of all the other stuff I'm doing in a few very very deliberate hours a week. I've done that now for six, seven years as that scaled into a multi-million dollar business. I've been the first marketing hire at a lot of companies and then now when I go do these conversations that I have at conferences or come in with brands, a lot of is around how do we structure our marketing org for the modern world. And if you guys like this video, I will follow up on one how you scale a team.

For now, we're going to focus on what does a lean operative look like. If you want to chat about any of this, the next community call is going to be linked below where we'll do a workshopping live Q&A and I'll talk about some of my specific thoughts on what operators look like. I'm going to pull out the whiteboard. Let's get into it. All right. So, let's talk about what does one person do in your business and you might be that person or another business to be relentlessly effective at generating leads, sales, customers through marketing. So, the first thing that matters most is word of mouth and referral. If you're already selling something, how do you optimize it to get the most out of your existing customers before we talk about any other channels building with virality? So, this starts before anything else happens. So, there are a couple types of things that happen here. They're worth understanding. First is when someone uses your product, do they have to share it? Like Zoom for instance, it has an inherent virality because every time you use it, someone else is forced to use it. But the second thing is, is the person that uses it, is it a billboard for them? So, for instance, that would be clothes. If you make their website, you make their logo, they're showing something off that they might be asked about that could be a referral scenario for them. So any billboard product, you absolutely need to build it in. And for a billboard on clothing, for instance, that can be as simple as whether or not you have logos visible and people care or not. If your user is excited enough to be able to share it, if they do share it, do they have an incentive? Then there's just the user obsess about it. Do they love it?

So Claude's virality and growth, right, a lot succeeds because so many other people are interested in using Claude. that users talk about it even when they don't do anything efficient. They love to talk about how efficient they're being. Then is it in their content cycle? So for instance with cosmetic products, are they doing get ready with me? If you are a local shop or a cafe, people getting the matcha then taking a photo of it. Now how do you optimize for that? Right? You're more likely to be in their content cycle with cooler looking packaging, that unique looking drink. If someone shows up to do your plumbing and it has the wild looking van, whatever it is, you're more likely to be inside the content cycle. So you got to think about where does your business live in this?

Again, this is prep before we even get into what marketing looks like. And then how do you engineer the best possible solution there? And you layer on logistics. So for product sales, software sales, what can you offer as an affiliate where you give them a reward or a percentage for promoting your product? You will see a lot of people do this at checkout. So they'll use something like social snowball to basically offer to customers in checkout and in the emails after checkout to help support their products and get percentages back. And businesses like Grunes grew a lot on top of this. And it's just worth having that set up from the beginning so that your sales were allowing other compound sales, establishing a percentage and a basic program. And then for any services, business, etc. Where do you get referrals? Can you make that easy? Can you encourage it? Can you say, "Yeah, we're going to give you a free month of maintenance for any customer that comes over. What incentive do you have? And then where do you ask for it?" And the biggest part for a lot of services businesses is to build in when you complete the project and they're happy with it. Are you able to ask right then?

Do you follow up once a quarter and ask for any referrals? Do you send them a gift when you do it? That is a process that the marketing person needs to build out almost immediately because if you are not doing that you are missing your basically highest conversion level customer that does not have a big customer acquisition cost or CAC. So this is before anything. Now when you actually get into monthly what should you be doing every month as a marketing person? So the first thing I like to focus on is messages. So this is how are you communicating the value proposition of what you sell and is it changing? So first you have your value to your customer. So for instance, we talked about in my former offers video about creative work. Basically any service businesses, you are either going to be better, you are going to be faster, or you are going to be cheaper. So it's thinking about where do you live inside that cycle. If you sell clothing, is it stylish to a particular niche? Does it last longer? Does it fit a certain body type? Is it preparing someone for a certain cultural event? What is the value you are giving them? What are new messages that you can test inside the cycle of your marketing? And you need to look at this every month because you'll start to notice trending messages work.

So, one note on this, if you've watched the video on HubSpot's channel that I do with Cody from Allegiate Gym, who's had some great success where he basically workshopped his funnel in a in a very similar position to this and he put ads in place about it and he saw some starters actually get real customer acquisition going for his business. He had talked about how a lot of people coming to his gym are starting to ask questions about peptides and GLP1s and they didn't know how to solve it. And we basically decided, hey, that's just worth introducing as a messaging angle.

Our gym can help you from a professional level walk through the right workouts to do if you are experimenting with these new things in fitness. Excellent example of a trending value prop. Another one I mentioned the women's wear brand that I'm a partner on and have worked on for years. Festival season murders it for us. We have a whole separate marketing and sections just around festival and dressing for festival. Coachella, stage coach, EDC, etc. So that is an example of a trending message. Same thing if you are in electronics and there was just like a big trade show or release or people are planning summer back to school or end of year budgets. What is trending? You need to think about those things happening this month and these messages are going to play into the rest of your marketing. So that monthly meeting, it could be you with a client, you have a client, could be you and your business just to brainstorm and your marketing team. And then you are going to make sure by reviewing customer support questions, social media comments, competition. You can use tools like perplexity to kind of go go through aggregate some of this or you can just go down the lists and look at it. What has come up that's objections inside the sales process? You can talk to the sales team etc. These are now all messages.

Now you have to deploy those messages. So now the other part of this is you need from those messages to get into your info release mechanism of this because you are going to have a bunch of information and answers and ideas from this and you need to actually make a plan to release them. So this means adding more content to your website. Can you have articles etc that you go live on there? Email. Are you sending out emails to your customers? I would suggest sending more plain text stuff whether it's from a founder or whatever it is so you can actually get into some of these topics but use that in the sales process. have template emails um for sales people if you're converting on a service or a high ticket thing.

Reddit, if there are subreddits to talk about this, you have a Reddit for your company that gets aggregated quite a bit by actual AI tools to answer questions. That's a useful one to go on. YouTube, can you sit down and yap about common questions? There's another one that gets aggregated in AI. And then adding that information to your landing pages, which we'll get to in a second, but basically anyone people go to actually view your product and buy it, can you layer on these items to those either in part of the main or as a test? So this is that big kind of monthly planning here. So we'll look at pre before you start doing any other marketing. You will look at your kind of monthly gander. Now let's look at what an actual week looks like for a marketing operator. So I firmly believe that for most brands there's a considerable upside in output for the amount of landing pages, articles, ad copy, SEO stuff for the blog and sales collaterals for the sales team using AI to basically help them with the copy and scaling the copy. But they need to do it with a strategic framework versus just pasting the idea in and asking for a version. So, I partnered with HubSpot to put together a free guide. This is my guide with them. It's called Teach AI your brand voice. It's a complete guide to building a copy machine in your brand voice in your favorite LLM. So, inside it, we cover dialing in your voice based on your actual customer experience using personas because you want to make sure your copy is actually relevant. We have a whole segment on that. We talk about providing LLM with copywriting frameworks. This is important from established marketing copywriters and styles, things like direct response. It will improve your copy versus just saving you time and actually make it so it's built for marketing conversion and you can test different voices and styles. And then tips and tricks for reviewing this and deploying this and not looking foolish. So my favorite part is the brand voice project template.

It's a complete system prompt that sets up Claude or ChachiBT within a project as your in-house kind of strategist copywriter for this. You drop in your brand context, your personas, pick voice references, and it can write homepage copy, ads, emails, landing pages, scripts, collateral, and more. all in your brand voice ready for you to review with the process we have there and ship and take advantage of this framework I've outlined here if you want to build a second brain for your marketing team knows your brand voice knows your personas and can actually help with outperforming copy is an excellent free download for you and the first time I've collaborated with HubSpot on something like this you can get it for free from the link below and thank you so much to HubSpot for partnering on this video and working with me to put this together I want to talk about the legend of the claude operator for a second because there was a whole myth not even a myth there's a whole kind of story going around how one person ran the majority of claude's performance marketing if not all of it for a long time as the business scaled into billions and people kind of laughed at it. Oh, they have an influencer team or they have agencies or whatever. At the end of the day, there's a lot of truth to one really effective person monitoring this stuff even at a big business and using some tools to help bring them in data and generate ideas can go a massively long way. And that happens even at the highest level of companies. That's why it's worth walking through this video is because you're going to start to see bosses be like, "Well, I read the story about X or Y." And you having a counter for that or you having a plan for that as a leader or a contributor, someone running a business is really important. So now that you have this monthly processes, now that you know how to engineer some of your copy to actually scale into that and get efficiency, how do you structure your week? So you want one day, I would say one day, whether you split that into two half days or you actually just dedicate a day to new creative. I'm going to put all this in terms of hours here. Let's say 8 hours to be focused on new creative. So your focus here is on ideiation, recruiting people actually make that content or finding vendors, assigning that content and following up and making some of it yourself. You have to. We'll talk about that in the timing here in a bit, but basically you want to for advertisements create new videos and statics. And to do that, you are going to want to get designers, which you can get off dribble or behance. You want to get UGC or just creators who are going to be help you to make some of those new videos at decent rates. And so you're going to be able to get those from places like uh Minio where you can just pay for packs of UGC. You can use meta creator manager for outreach. You can use social snowball. I will link my guide down below that I have about utilizing creators in the creator economy. Tribe, one we can do on Instagram. You can put stuff in the ad account on a percentage of ad spend and you need ideas for them which you can get from video database which is the one um that we maintain myself and the cut 30 guys around finding video information and then basically quickly making briefs from that. You can use motion. The social growth engineers website is amazing if you do SAS and I send out a content review newsletter with the cut 30 team. We send out almost every week that we gives you a bunch of ideas in your inbox. But your job, you want to be able to get these. And to do these, you need to ideulate, you need to recruit, you need to brief, and you need to follow up. I will be spending eight hours a week doing this. Again, this is assuming you have other responsibilities. And you begin scaling this team. This is likely just a job that just does this. One day of your week is being how do I find more people to get in this funnel? How do I assign the people that I have with new ideas?

And how do I make sure this is all tracked inside a doc? Could be as simple as a spreadsheet, notion doc, whatever. So, you're going to spend eight hours a week on that new creative. And you are going to spend 4 hours a week in two 2hour blocks or you could probably even do this faster into performance. You're going to load in performance creative. So on a quick note, performance marketing is beneath no one. Every single person should be running ads for their business. There's a massive alpha and upside there. And also media buying is commoditized. You do not need an agency. You do not need a specialist. It has become radically easy. If you are this one person doing this or doing this in your org, you should do it. Facebook has its own course teaching you how to set up these campaigns and stuff. It's very straightforward. Google Ads, same thing. They have a whole certification program. Start with that in your pre-prep if you don't know anything else. Be spending this time before you even load in ads. Spend those four hours a week learning that and setting it up.

But you should really just need two 2-hour chunks absolutely max to load in whatever new creative has been generated inside the creative process. These messages inform this creative that you then load in and then running your analytics, checking what's working and making notes. So, you're basically loading analytics, learning. Do not spend more time in ads manager in those platforms than this. you are likely wasting time if you are spending more in there. Every business should be starting with meta ads, supplementing that with Google ads. If you are a lifestyle business, you're doing clothing, you're doing that kind of stuff. Any physical product, you probably want to run TikTok in a similar way to what you're running on meta services businesses. Additional scale, you can look to YouTube ads. Now, I would be spending another 4 hours a week on your funnel related to this. So, that is your landing pages. Where are those people landing? If you're trying to figure out what to run that stuff to, are you getting emails? Those emails using lead forms, are they using forms in there? How much rows are in the forms? What can you test to make sure you're getting that information? What emails do you send to people after that?

Specifically in this sales process, your abandoned cart flow, things like that. So now you basically eaten up two full days in new creative, loading in the performance and helping improve the funnel from the creative, matching the landing pages to your messages, stuff like that. I'd be getting another four in on more collateral and email. What are you supporting the sales team with? Can you be giving people more PDFs, more information, more testimonials and aggregating it there? Sending broadcast to your list, segmenting your list. This is really getting into email marketing.

So broadcast, automation, personas, collateral, so anything you can give to the sales team, templates, this is enablement and forward- facing stuff going out to customers. And then once you once you're in this, you're going to start looking at influence and creators and people that can actually broadcast with their existing audience. This is a very similar flow to what you see up here. And that is another day. This becomes someone again you begin to have when you begin to build a team. You have a person that specializes on his creative. You have a person that specializes on the funnel and email and performance. You have a person that specializes on influencer. All of a sudden, that's how you have a multi-person team. This is the same thing. You are doing outreach, you are doing contracts. Okay? No excuses here.

Just have AI work through a bunch of this for you. And as you get bigger and more legit and have resources on legal, you build templates out. Scheduling, tracking, and deliverables. So, this is getting external people, not the only internal creative you're putting on ad accounts. external people to do that for different amounts of money. So now if you look at your week, you have one day on new creative, one day on performance and funnel, one day on influencer, one day on collateral, half day on collateral and email. That only brings us to 3 and 1/2 days. Now, here's what else I'm going to figure. You're going to have meetings, follow-ups, all the stuff that comes from this. That's going to be an hour a day. And if it's more than that, that's a problem in itself.

Let's even add that up. Let's say it's going to be 8 hours a week of emails, follow-ups, and other random stuff that doesn't come in here. So we're going to have another eight. This just going to be logistics. So now that's going to bring us to four and a half full days. And that's if you're working a 40hour week, which I haven't worked a 40-hour week in the last 15 years. It's all been 60s, etc. I'm sure a lot of people are going to be in a similar scenario, but let's just assume that that gives you another half day in addition to all these logistics and all these stuff. And that I would be focused on how can you be helping turn out content content for organic and I've even touched organic social on here because it doesn't matter. You want to scale. You want to focus on the things you need to scale first. Hammering through a lot of this now to actually test and validate and do that. Well, let's say you want to focus on organic social for those the last 4 hours. That should be you testing and yapping or putting together carousels for a few videos, etc. Or filming someone else on the team if you have a team, but actually getting more content out on organic to help validate a bunch of these ideas. But that is if you are an efficient person operating in this, if you run your weeks like this, and you'll see every business will be a little different. I don't need as much time on that. I need more time on this.

But this is a framework. Anything else, anything else you're thinking about here does not matter. If it can't be filled up in those eight hours of logistics, it's probably not worth doing for most businesses and most sizes. And if you are worried about is my marketing team busy enough, am I busy enough? How would I fill up those hours? Am I what do I do with my procrastination time? You are zoning in on all of this gives you that complete weekly plan. So opportunities I see here, if you are a person who isn't operating your own business, but you want to be able to help businesses, this here that new creative, so that's creative strategy, whether that's for ads, etc. And ideally some more of this both for brands and for personal brands.

creators need stuff like this too, especially this top up here. A lot of them need this exact framework that is an opportunity to sell into that you could be developing as a business. It's probably a separate video. So anyway, I will link obviously the HubSpot copy guide. I will link the creator economy guide to actually finding influence and and creators and working with them in here. And I will link the community call where you can ask any questions on this.

We can go over it live is all going to be downloaded in the description. Let me know if you like the whiteboard videos and the outlines, if this is helpful to show you how I think about this and how I work with teams. And I will keep those coming in the queue. And thank you all so much for watching.
