In this video, we are going to cover a full guide how to build a content-first [music] marketing team in 2026, no matter what the size of your org is.
So, we're going to cover this from the smallest to the largest of companies.
I'm going to go through examples, small and large, to kick this off, all kinds of brands that are going media company first.
We've all heard this trend, you love to talk about on LinkedIn, every marketing guru that brands are media companies now, but no one talks about how you actually execute it tactically.
After those examples, I'm going to talk about how to build a marketing plan in the content world.
What does your team look like?
What are the goals to give that team?
What are anchors?
What are goals?
Do you actually have the ability to navigate if you're pivoting to this new world, starting from scratch, or just want to understand your place in the world as a creative and a marketer in this brand as media company era?
And I've been involved in this on every level.
I started as a content creator when I was an SVP of marketing, and I was pivoting my more traditional marketing org to have to think like this, and it was hard.
Recently, I advised on the build-out of an entire studio system for an existing brand that wanted to bring its expensive six-figure productions in-house, working through everything from their gear to the facilities to what staff would look like.
And I saw that every single time they brought in a traditional media professional, the costs were going radically out of control.
It's a big part of why I decided to make this video.
It's going to be super thorough.
I'm super excited for it.
A lot of prep went into this.
Let's lock in.
A quick heads-up on the 24th, my next community call, we're going to go through Q&A and training just on this.
If you want to go deeper and ask questions, you can sign up at the link below.
We'll also have a PDF summary of all the stuff I talk about in here that's going to be available for anyone that comes to the call.
Let's kick off with examples, because becoming a media company, building a content team, doesn't mean just posting more TikToks or asking for more from your social media manager.
It means structuring your marketing team and your organization to be content first.
And you'll see a lot of hot in the moment concepts, like social shows are really hot concept right now, but most people who are doing them flop because they didn't know how to make a content first org before that.
A social show won't solve all your problems if you don't know how to make great content.
It's just a tool that you have once you do.
And so everyone when they think of brands that are also media companies, they start with Red Bull.
Red Bull was the original masters of this.
And I do want to shout out, this is not a new concept.
Social media has changed it, but Red Bull did this.
Patagonia's had documentaries and ripping that forever.
Salomon the same way, early on YouTube and just dominated with it.
I remember Arc'teryx used to have a massive explorer section of their website with all these deep dive documentaries, etc.
that I would spend a lot of time on.
And this used to be a advantage for those brands to stand out in their niches, and now it is more of a thought of how you have to compete if you want to last in this era.
So Red Bull still does this today, right?
Where they basically replaced a certain type of TV that no longer really exists, the Tosh 2.0, the ridiculousness, the action sports era.
Now it just lives out on their Instagram.
They've adapted it to be very good for social media.
But I want you to think there's a lot of ways to accomplish this of all different sizes.
So one of my favorites is Rapha, they're a cycling brand.
So they're interesting because they actually do long-form cycling documentary.
They do their great social media content including really artful, well-shot stuff like this as well as kind of more conceptual carousel-based stuff like this.
But they really focus on documentary films and using their retail locations, calling them clubhouses, putting screens inside them and doing screenings of these documentaries and other films and participatory experiential marketing within their network of retail.
So it became a hub for cycling media.
Now it also gave them the ability to debut the media that they were creating, this long-form stuff, in a way that builds real community with their active users.
That's why I want to call out that being a media company doesn't always just involve putting out tons and tons of TikToks.
You can do this in more refined ways as well.
One of my favorites is Flamingo Estate, where they obviously have amazing editorial content.
If you go to their website any given day, you see all this beautiful photography and brand content.
They really care about the editorial look and feel that they have.
But they also do this, I believe, weekly letter from the garden from the founder where he talks not just about the brand, but about the experiences, the places he's traveling.
They curate boxes from around the world, and he'll break down the intricacies of them.
It's a combination of the editorial that happens on written as well as what happens on social media.
And I love to look at this brand as an example because I believe the backstory of this was during COVID, the founder ran an agency, and they wanted to focus their efforts on a brand as work went away.
And they basically turned the media that they produced as an agency into the media team that worked on the brand.
So, a common example of a direct transition into "Hey, we have all this quality.
We have this network of creatives.
Let's apply that to a really amazing story." And then they centered it around the location.
The Ling Long Estate is the story of this physical estate.
It gives it this amazing world they can document.
Tracksmith is another one where they have stories, they have documentary films, they have Meter magazine, a physical issue that they do.
They have these documents of this amateur running that they've done online on social media.
They'll publish everything from gift guides.
It's built into their flow as a brand that's come up.
They're ideally aesthetic.
And then the storytelling in the written world, in the documentary world, and in the short form world is a core part of the brand.
Now, in more social native, one of my favorites I've called out before that's local to me is the Cheese Store of Beverly Hills that my friend Greg works on.
And I love calling this out as an example of a small business.
They have a retail store that has a immaculate selection of cheese, and they literally just have their employees interacting with customers, getting a gift, recommending different cheeses for different styles, explaining what came into the store with all the characters throughout that.
All shot on iPhone, all straightforward in a constant stream of every single day.
This is one post a day, a new story from the store in that location.
They're documenting the same thing at a pop-up.
So, I like to highlight this as it's become a content-focused org, right?
You can execute something like this by spending one day a week documenting a bunch of what actually happens in the physical location with a videographer actually working through that.
Shoot it all on iPhone, and you have a content-first promotion machine that works on all social media.
This happens for orgs without a team or a contractor, too.
One of the recurring guests that we have on Cut 30 is Chunky Fit Cookie.
So, the founders have come on.
What I love about them is they'll have come on and given talks to the people we have in inside the Zooms at the high points and the low points of content.
They're solving it like anybody else, but at a founder level.
They're saying, "Hey, our content's flopping right now.
Here's what we're about to test.
Oh, our content's at a high.
We're going viral.
Here's what worked." They live and breathe this as much as they live and breathe the recipes of their product.
And that's the core how to start with a media team.
We'll get into actual team later.
You'll see they are shooting iPhone content constantly.
Founders are on camera.
They're documenting inside the commercial kitchen that they work in.
They found a couple viral things that work for them.
They're documenting the journey that they have.
And you'll see a brand that starts with this at its core when it's just two employees and how that can build to when you're much bigger.
One of my favorite examples at scale, probably heard me mention before, is Ladder, the workout app.
When I talk about team, they're going to be a perfect example of what I mean by this.
So, they have their own internal social media team who are creating content on main, but then also, they've all the coaches that work in on their app, their fitness app, who all work with the brand.
I believe there's 10 or 20 or more, who create content on their own that also promotes the app.
And they're interacting characters with this.
And this is interesting because basically every representative of their brand is a content creator of their own right.
They have to interact with the main account and they're all working towards one goal and actually sharing advice.
I spoke at one of their offsites, I believe a year or two ago, cuz they were looking to educate more of their content team about different tactics and techniques.
So, not only are they working together, but they're investing in bringing in outside people to actually talk to them and help.
And I'm going to overwhelm you with examples here because I want you to understand that every size, every industry, there is somebody doing this and it is working.
Rare form, number one of my favorites, they're taking all the stuff they sell.
They're a curated marketplace.
This is such a good strategy for anything like second-hand or anyone who runs a store distribution operation.
Every big retailer, Nordstrom, QuickTrip, 7-Eleven, like has the best opportunity to act on stuff like this.
But Rare form will go break down the history of the different pieces of furniture that they have in house with their team members in all of these different ways.
They have an infinite library of their own products to go to work from.
And then perhaps the best who I look at kind of the gold standard of this is Represent.
So Represent has done this in long form and short form excellently.
So not only do they have the Represent YouTube, George the founder has his own YouTube, they have a 24/7 YouTube for their athletic side where they've created the persona of the brand and they're documenting it there.
They also created the persona of the founders.
Then you go to their actual social media, you have the Represent core social media, very kind of straightforward clothing brand content at a high level, lifestyle, lookbooks.
Then you have the founder content that's a little more personable storytelling showing both behind the scenes and all the action that's arguably more important than the core brand account.
And they're not just doing that from George and the charismatic leader angle, they're also doing it from his brother Michael and the creative angle and the design angle.
So you get to see all of that happen and the core account and they are the embodiment themselves of what the brand looks like.
Multiply them by all the other characters in their story, the people that they sponsor.
And you'll see if you are on TikTok and you interact with Represent, you're going to get with an onslaught of sponsored TikToks from them of creators of all kinds, small to large, doing sponsored fit checks that they're running through Spark ads.
This is a sophisticated media system operating at the highest level on short and long form on all networks, personal brands, and core brand and what a modern media company looks like.
And it takes a lot of planning and time and dedication and obsession to execute at that level.
We're going to talk about events at the end of this and I'll tack on the Kosis and Merit and a few that do well there.
But I'm going to end with an example for software and an example in the agency world.
So Cloudera changed how everyone markets software.
Cloudera has done a number of different things in terms of spinning out tons of accounts, obviously the much talked about.
They're one of the examples of someone whose marketing goes further than their product, right?
They don't have a product anyone's buying, arguably a product that works.
Maybe they're doing okay, but their content's incredible.
They built a machine that whenever they do find that fit, they'll be able to work into.
And I see a hundred software companies who are copying this and there's a website for this Social Growth Engineers that documents a lot of this really well.
They are going and creating episodic funny content around the Clewly world.
And they're doing this again for software.
It's why I want everyone to think there's there's no way this can't work for whatever program you're on, right?
If you remember, I'm a recurring face on the Cash App social media.
Whether you're in finance, whether you're in software, it works.
And the last example I'll give before we dive into the tactic side of this is on the agency side.
So, many of you are familiar with Darkroom, who I've interviewed their founder on this channel in my Art of Advertising video.
So, they have a world of creators on their account, too.
So, you'll see Max Nodet, Cut 30 Brad is a recurring creator they have on there.
600K on this video.
Tatum, another Cut 30 creator, has recurring content on there.
They're collaborating with people to help them make media about the core niche.
They designed my carousels, and we collab post on those carousels.
So, I'm basically if I do a carousel about the art of the marketing campaign, they're a collaborator on it.
They're also gaining the followers, someone who provides a service inside this niche.
So, they decided to build the world around the creator economy, which is something that they believe in as an agency.
And we'll talk about this when we get to team.
But, finding an agency that understands something like this, the way someone like Darkroom does, that runs your paid, that runs your email, that understands the creator flywheel, that's the storytelling, the media co-component, and then can use those assets to make you money is a core part of understanding how this new marketing world works, not just the actual content creation.
Anyway, now that we've walked through a ton of the examples, I'm going to explain the actual world of how all this marketing works and ties together.
I'm going to go through what you need to do it and the team that needs to create it.
And we're going to talk about goals and anchors.
First, let me explain the world.
So, every marketing org needs to look at what they're doing like this.
You have your owned organics, your owned social media organic accounts.
Maybe you have one Instagram, one TikTok, maybe you have multiple, but that is the stuff that you own and control.
Then you need to have your owned paid, ads that you run, that you create assets for.
So, your content team that you have is making content for your owned organic and is making content for your paid ad accounts, whether you're doing full TV ads, whether you're doing ads just on Meta or TikTok.
Someone needs to be like be creating that.
And then that ideally in this generation starts in-house.
Maybe you have external partners once you have an in-house team.
We'll explain that in a minute.
But then you have your world, you have your organic world with people outside of that.
So for instance in the Represent example, George and Michael are extensions of the brand.
They're part of the brand world.
Same thing in the Dark Room example.
So your organic world begins to get pretty big pretty fast.
Many of you know the brand I've worked with this last year, Morphe.
They have thousands of creators that are being seated product all the time.
There's thousands of creators participating in their brand world.
They're posting organically, they're getting their content sparked, where paid dollars are going behind it to get it more reach.
And then for any brand that's smart about this, they're taking content from that world and pulling it into their ad account.
They're additional assets that they're spending advertising dollars behind.
If you understand that core thing, you understand how this new marketing world works.
Cuz the efficacy of this is so much higher than basically any other media buying that you can do.
Creating a flywheel for this is the marketing.
And then you have the conversion aspect of that.
What are the landing pages that people go to, whether that's the product detail pages or pages to sign up for a call or get a free download, whatever it is.
How good are those pages?
What are its messaging?
And then what is your communications?
Your email and your SMS that go out.
And how all this intertwine?
Do you have the same assets, the same characters, the same media, the same faces?
How do you fill up your email automation and your email marketing with the content that you're making inside the rest of that that I just discussed?
That is your marketing world.
And everything outside of that, anything else you are considering doing, trade shows, buying banner ads on whatever, sponsorships, any of this, forget any of that until this part is a money-making machine.
Cuz any industry that you are in from a retail store to a fashion brand to financial services to legal, this is the flywheel that gets you the most results for the least dollars in a combo of organic and advertising that is extremely scalable.
And once this is a money printing machine for you, you can expand outside.
Now we're going to talk about the team and what you need to get it together.
But first, if you're like me, you keep reading and hearing about agentic commerce.
But what exactly is it and do you need to care yet?
Let me explain.
So right now most e-commerce stores are a collection of static pages, product detail pages, checkout, your homepage, your cart.
And the shopper does the work navigating through all of this.
They read the reviews, they may even leave the site as part of the experience to find validation for what they want to buy.
The journey is the same whether it's their first visit or their hundredth visit.
And the data that the store captures and gives the brand owner on the back end doesn't actually inform their experience as they browse.
Now, I want to make it very clear that this is absolutely changing.
We all understand that LLMs are a component of search discovery now, so you can discover products or get to a website from Claude or ChatGPT the same way that you might from Google search.
But, that's not enough.
The idea of agentic commerce is you're actually bringing that into your store.
This near future of e-commerce is beginning to happen right now.
What's called agentic shopping is where people are going to interact with the site that knows their budget, knows their sizing, what they've navigated on before.
It's able to change in real time as they move, answer their questions, and present options.
Give real advice on mixing and matching, what works for their skin or their body type.
There's going to be a significant shift in how people shop online.
So, Swap, who I partnered with on this video, is leading the curve here.
They're the first agentic storefront company.
They've already partnered with Drake's, Percival, Frankie Shop, Retrofet, Tala, brand names you've heard me talk about on this channel, and many more to begin implementing this agentic layer in addition to your standard e-commerce store, just like a new channel.
But, what's most exciting is the stats of what this leads to.
2x conversion rates with the AI-guided storefront, 3x time on site with deeper customer engagement, up to 20% reduction in returns with better fit guidance, and repeat customers increasingly prefer the agentic experience.
This is just the early results.
There's an entire ecosystem that's coming here.
For everyone watching this right now, my main focus in this video is just awareness.
I want you to understand what's coming.
Go to the Swap site and visit it.
Look at some of the examples, look at some of the products, some of the customer stories, and just begin to think about what that could mean for your business and how you might build a strategy on it.
And people who make a bet on this for their career or with their brands may be able to see a radical amount of growth.
And opportunities at this scale do not come around very often.
You can learn more about Swap at the link in the description.
All right, so now we talked about all the examples of who's running their brand like a media company.
We talked a bit through what the world of marketing looks like.
Now, let's get into what you need and what the team looks like.
What do I mean by what you need?
So, to make media, you need a few things.
There's actual editorial and media concepts.
It's not just about the cameras and the shooting of it.
You need a point of view.
What is your content saying?
Why is it different?
What are you saying to your customer beyond just pushing the product?
Are you selling them on a lifestyle or a function or humor or a key insight?
You also need patience.
Testing through this level of media isn't something where you go viral right away.
It takes repetition over time.
If you watch any of my videos where I talk about creating a brand social media from scratch and the pillar system and refinement, you are 90 days away from publishing four to five times a week and getting into a groove based on real metrics.
You can dive into those in those videos.
And you need some editorial standards.
You need to be able to say, "This is good enough." or "This is not good enough." and why.
And then you need some process.
You need the characters your brand's going to talk about.
We're going to get to that in team.
And you need product dev and content dev to work side by side.
When you're coming up with product, content needs to be in the room.
They need to be documenting the process as it goes along.
You need to be thinking through the future of your content in the same way you're thinking through your product roadmap.
And the best orgs are going to integrate these at the core level.
They're going to be side by side throughout this process.
So, what does this team look like?
So, the key person here, the most important and one of the hardest roles to hire right now, is the head of growth.
Some call it a head of social.
Sometimes it's a really high-level creative strategist, marketing director.
It's basically this director, senior-level role that's not a CMO, but whose job is to pull that world I described from conceptual idea into reality, action by action, relentlessly every single day.
This is usually supplemented by an agency that gets it.
Like I brought up Darkroom before, but someone who is going to be able to make the assets that your team can't, that's able to run some of the email campaigns or put together the ads, or you have some level of media buying and standard operational support in-house.
But then the content teams itself, everyone's asking, "How do I hire those?
How do I structure those?" So, what I recommend is doing this in pods.
You can't ever have one person that day.
I have a social media manager that does this is no longer the way this works.
It's always at least a two-person group inside one of these pods.
So, one person is always a social media manager/strategist.
This is someone whose job is to make briefs, put together shot lists, run the analytics for the accounts, do the actual posting, do coordination of when shooting etc.
is happening, and communications between orgs and media buyers, and doing ideation.
This is what I train inside of creative strategy, the program I have that's like cut 30 but for brand strategy, and this is what the orgs need to basically be the brain of a pod.
So, what does the rest of the pod look like?
So, most often the next hire is a creator, someone whose job is to make content.
They're also working on ideation but then they're actually recording and making content, whether they're the face or they're just shooting.
And ideally they're editing it, too, at the start.
A lot of this is being done in CapCut.
You will see brand after brand that has one really savvy girl or guy who shoots an absolute ton of content and does all the social media edits for it.
When you pair them with a social media manager or a strategist and don't ask them to pull the analytics, attend a ton of meetings, have to brief all kinds of stuff, and you separate that right and left brain, is where this really starts to hammer.
Someone else is responsible for a lot of the organization, someone's responsible for a ton of the creation, and they work together.
And that's the core of a pod.
But what's great about the pod system is that creative strategist can manage more than just that one creator.
So, typically you'll end up seeing these pods look like an internal creator, three to four external people.
You can pull them from like Many Social or Super Affiliate, allows you to now go into the Meta Creators and like search through there.
You're basically finding people that contribute at a cost per video or a monthly retainer basis that you're also briefing and ideating on, and then using that for your either organic socials or your ads.
Going back to that chart I had of what your brand world looks like.
Another great way to pull people from these externals is Outer Signal.
If you haven't seen Outer Signal, it's a software I highly recommend.
It actually goes through your customer base, and this is one of the things it does, but it actually pulls all the people that are influential who are your existing customers.
Who are great people to hit up and offer to pay to make content cuz they already get it.
And so, that pod will usually end up being that strategist, we'll say one to five people working under there that they can actually take care of the briefing and ideation and reporting from.
Their meeting cadence, one-on-ones with the strategist and those people every single week.
Maximum one-on-ones you want any one of your team members doing every week is maybe five.
Creative review, where everyone sits down and goes through the creative that's about to go live.
Feedbacks that works on the hooks, etc.
Analytics reviews where you pull the analytics from the previous weeks and you're looking at this week over week, month over month.
You have to be doing this.
Have to be running something like the pillar system I've described before.
This is absolutely crucial to success here.
And the reason that everyone that comes out of creative strategy knows how to win is cuz they're running analytics and then they're running it with their creators.
People know what to improve and say in testing and saying, "Yes, this worked.
No, this didn't." Research where everyone's reviewing the links and ideation and stuff that they have.
And use some sort of product management tool that ties it together.
It doesn't matter what it is as long as you have it.
I run a ton in Notion.
At Gel Blaster when we were running an org like this, we did uh it all in ClickUp.
Monday, Asana, it truly does not matter.
You just need to have the tool.
At the end of every week, the social media media manager or the strategist goes through and they actually go through, "Okay, what did every creator do?
What are all the assets that came out?
What is on our schedule for next week?" And they recap that to their team and to management.
Everyone understands what's happening in the media company side of this.
That's when you begin to get a machine.
And what's beautiful is you then get multiple pods.
You will see the smart org start to have multiple of these.
You have their strategist or their manager, have a couple people them creating content they're getting briefed into and reporting on.
And all of a sudden you might spin a second one up for TikTok.
Or hey, we're going to do the founder content, right?
There's a videographer that follows the founder around.
There's someone that's helping strategize that.
There's an editor that works on it.
All of a sudden you're going to put a pod together in that combination of creators, outside creators, editors, shooters, whoever can put together a particular size of media around this.
And once you start to get multiple pods, you may begin to have shared resources.
You can look at your marketing org as pod, pod, shared resources.
Editors become a shared resource cuz they can work across everything that you have.
Designers become a shared resource.
Someone needs to brief them.
You can be hiring people off contract for this.
We're hiring more designers than ever off of there.
None of these mentions I have of software are affiliate or anything like that.
I'm just mentioning the stuff we actually use.
Production, you end up getting a producer who's working on the objects and the settings and the booking of places and things.
A lot of times it can simply happen at the pod level, but as you begin to become a bigger org, it may be worth having someone dedicated to that.
This is what you'll see when you start getting into 20-person teams.
Then you want leads.
Someone leading e-com related repurposing.
Hey, all these pods are making all this content.
I want to make sure everything being generated and seeding and influencer and all these different other aspects of the org are all going back into content.
Someone who leads channel comms.
Hey, I want to make sure our marketing is supporting all of our channel partners.
I'm communicating all the things our marketing is doing to those channel partners and the people we sell with.
And eventually you land up with actual creative director or someone who has a vision for what all this looks like.
Can help coach the creative strategist.
Can help put a comprehensive vision and standards into place.
Has an extremely hard job to find the right people for.
And that's what the team looks like.
And it complements your traditional marketing org you may have.
A media buyer you may have an e-commerce operations person.
May have an email.
May have an influencer marketing person or any of those going out to an agency.
Complemented by this media pod system.
So, what do you actually ask them to do every week?
Let's get into goals.
Your goals, net new creative in the ad account.
You want new ads that are published every single week.
I say a good goal for a pod, even if it's two people, is 10 really strong concepts a week in the ad account or on organic social.
It's also worth it when you get off from beyond those first two people to have a unique concept to your team with traction.
The way we saw Cheese Store Beverly Hills, there's a couple really unique things that they show.
You want a unique repeatable thing.
Your goal should be to get your team trying that and basically trying new ideas at that until they lock it in.
A social show, a founder series, whatever it is.
And you're going to test into something like that.
Basically, like a film.
You try a pilot.
You four to six test episodes of something and you iterate on it to improve it.
You'll see wildly different amounts of creative depending on what the brand of the org is like.
Some people will be doing hundreds of ads.
Some people will be doing a handful of really strong ones.
But a good starting point is 10 unique assets.
Let's just say five in the ad account.
Five that are going on organic of which some are also repurposed in the ad account is an excellent place to start.
And you'll end up seeing orgs that do far more.
And then last, what are the anchors?
How do we build the rest of our world around this?
What makes this unique or what makes this work?
So, fame is always helpful.
A celebrity, anyone you can work in on that.
Influence is another one.
You'll be able to tie an influencer into this at any level.
The way AllSaints has done their recurring series with a really famous influencer in their niche and he anchors some of the content they have on organic.
If you have an amazing story that you're able to tell.
If you have different production elements, the way we have a set, the spaces you have.
Like Chunky Fit was filming inside of this commercial kitchen tells a certain story for the brand.
I love to call it F Zonal where he's basically showing his house and his lab and his personal collection of fragrances is a big key part of the story of that brand on social media.
And then events, a brand I love to call out is doing real great world building around events is Kosas.
Kosas is a great example of this.
They have core social media, they have their influencers, their founder has developed social media, she didn't start as an influencer and does it really well and tells a certain side of the brand in a compelling way.
And then they do brand trips.
They have this whole thing, "We're going to get influencers out there, we're going to create this cultural moment that's unique to us." And it's not like a huge brand like Tarte doing that, it's an upstart brand that's gotten somewhere.
Merit is another great example of this where they're doing these like smart little activations like they had they're doing editor deliveries on branded Vespas during Paris Fashion Week.
An excellent example of those branded Vespas and delivery drivers is not a 100K investment, right?
Significantly less than that and they're documenting it for content and they're getting the actual use out of it.
And I'm going to end on gear because I just went through this exercise where people are recommending like buying this ridiculous equipment to do this stuff and how many people you need to have on set.
And I cannot emphasize enough that you can do this with an iPhone, an Osmo, and some decent lights.
Amaran 300s from filming this on.
If you do need something, a Nikon Z8 or an FX3, if the Arris are coming out or people want Reds, you're going too far.
Stop.
Use that money elsewhere.
Give your team gear and an excuse to learn.
This is the social media era.
The emphasis has to be on workflow, speed, speed of in-camera to usage.
You can cut down editing cuz you're actually shooting.
You're not even shooting log, you're shooting with color that's just going to go right to social anyway.
Fast editing.
Workflow is everything.
Optimize for that.
But anytime you have like a sound specific person, there's more than two to three people on the shoot team, anything with those hours doing color, you are losing.
It is not that era.
I cannot encourage you enough to be focusing on this in a different way.
So like I mentioned, I am doing a community call where I'm going to answer all of your questions around this.
You can hop on here it is the 24th, it will be recorded and we're going to do basically Q&A around building these modern teams and thinking through this world.
Anyone that comes to that too, we're going to summarize all of what we have here in a PDF, all the examples, all the tactics, all the charts.
You can sign up for that a link below.
Next week a bunch of my Japan content is going to start coming out.
So I'm super excited for that and for you to check out a bunch of what's happened there.
If you have questions about this, drop them because I'm going to hit a bunch of them in the webinar.
And as [music] always, thank you so much for watching.
