Now look, if you could really understand the four things that I'm about to share with you in this video, the truth is you would never need another piece of business advice again in your life. You wouldn't need to read my book. You wouldn't need any strategy book. You wouldn't need to go and get an MBA. You wouldn't need to hire a consultancy. You wouldn't need to watch a load of YouTube videos like this. You wouldn't need any of that because with these four ideas baked into your brain, you would have everything you need to get out there to play the game and win it. And although this sounds fanciful, we know that it's true. We know it's true because people have done it. Out there in the world and in history, there are totally uneducated founders who are beating massive corporations with armies of MBAs and oceans of data. And they're doing it despite having, you know, barely read a book because they know the four things that we are going to talk about in this video. The four things that make someone what I would call a natural strategist. Now I say natural because these are not techniques that you have to learn. This is not book learning. This is not frameworks. It's not stuff like that. Instead, what we're talking about are some fundamental assumptions about business and how the world works that some people just have as their default for whatever reason. And most people don't. These assumptions are running in the background of every decision they make. And because of that they're compounding day after day into a massive competitive advantage which is almost unassalable with you know just using sort of best practice processes. Now look cards on the table. I don't actually have all of these embedded in my brain. I mean look I wrote a book called No [ __ ] Strategy. I sort of should do but the truth is I've spent years educating brands on this stuff and I still catch myself breaking these principles all the time in my business. So, this isn't going to be me, you know, lecturing you from on high like I am the strategic genius and you're not. I'm on this journey with you. But the reason that I'm making this video is because I know that the more we repeat these things, the more we start to build muscle memory and the easier everything gets. It's just four things. They're all very counterintuitive but simple. Let's get them into our brains and let's go through them now. So, here's the first one. And on the face of it, it's going to sound almost embarrassingly basic and you think to yourself, "Well, I can skip this one over." But just stay with me, okay? The first one is this. To get different results, you have to do different things. That is it. That is the whole principle. And yes, it sounds dumb and it sounds basic. So dumb and basic that it's probably going to slip in one ear and out the other. But trust me, almost nobody gets this when you look at their behaviors. And I'll show you what I mean. Now, a nice way to think about this is that you've probably heard that Einstein quote about how the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Well, my version here is like that, but it's a tiny bit different and it's much more useful. So, take that, Albert. My version is that insanity is doing the same thing as other people, as other companies, and expecting different results from them. And this is pretty much exactly what every CEO and every business leader does. They all want, we all want different, i.e. better results than our competitors. But if you actually look at the stuff that a given business, most businesses do day in day out, it's actually basically the same templated stuff that all of their competitors do. They have the same plans. They have the same priorities. They use the same tactics. All of that stuff. Because they believe in a fallacy that's very different than the one we're talking about here. They believe that to build a successful business, you just have to do the right things and you will succeed. But the problem is if everybody is doing the right things, which for the most part they are, well then you won't, will you? Like the proof of this is pretty simple. If you ask any CEO on the planet what is the one big thing that they are doing that their competitors are not doing, they should be able to answer that bam in a sentence straight off the bat. But let me tell you, they almost never can. If you're a CEO watching this or a leader from a big corporation, I'm pretty sure you can't either. Of course, you'll you'll get some answer. you'll get some rambling thing about their culture or how they execute or how they're customer obsessed or these sort of micro differences that don't mean anything. Everybody of course is obsessed with customers and all that and but nobody's actually doing any big fat obvious thing different and therefore that's why they're not getting any big fat obvious results different. Now in fairness, look, I've got to give the devil his due. It's kind of understandable how this happened because you see 20 years ago, maybe even just 10 years ago, things were a bit different, right? Execution was genuinely difficult. Competitors would routinely fail to deliver on best practice. So, if you and your team did deliver on it, then yes, it was possible that you did have an edge. Added to this, I would say that back in those days, general kind of lack, you know, because the internet sort of wasn't embedded in everyone's brains all the time, I'd say general lack of professionalism, it kind of created a lot of accidental differentiation. So, you'd get a lot of natural diversity among businesses, but all these days are over. Post AI especially, everybody can execute and everyone knows how to do everything. And that means that they ultimately all end up executing the same stuff in the same way. Everybody, you know, can produce decent content at scale and everybody can build software if they want to and everybody can run a decent ad campaign. We can all do all of these things, which means that all the accidental differentiation has evaporated and you're left staring at a market where you got 50 companies who are doing the same thing to the same standard, fighting over the same customers, and then you're like, "H, I'm doing everything so well. I'm doing everything right. Why is it not working? This ultimately is why everyone feels like they're having to sprint to stay still these days because they they literally are because you are all on that same conveyor belt of best practice doing everything right but not doing anything differently. Now natural strategists on the other hand they don't think like this. They just weren't wired that way. They don't try to be the best at what everyone else is doing. They are generally speaking irredeemably contrary bastards who look at what everyone else is doing and then they just deliberately bloody-mindedly sometimes going against their best interests. They don't do that thing. Like you might have heard for example how Peter Teal always uses this famous interview question. What important thing do you believe that everybody else disagrees with you on? And he's asking this specifically because he's actually trying to tease out this naturally strategic trait. The fact is that just as most CEOs do nothing unique, most people think nothing unique. We we all we all think that we do. Another unique thought that we have, we all think that we've got these unique opinions and perspectives, but on interrogation, it it tends to fall apart. So the action step for you on this first thing to start moving this into your brain and into your body is every day just think about this simple question. What is one big thing that we are doing that no one else in our category is? Answer it. Get an answer to it. And even better as you do different sort of subtasks in your business, marketing or hiring or whatever, you can also ask what different things are you doing in these tasks that others aren't doing. And all these things are going to add up. Now, don't get me wrong, they're not all going to work. Some of them are actually going to be to your detriment. But what they will do is open you up for the first time ever to the potential of the thing that you actually want and that is meaningfully different results. Okay. Number two principle that a natural strategist has embedded in their body. Businesses exist not to solve problems, but to create value. Now, this is one that I find myself raging against pretty much constantly, pretty much every day, because the solve customer problems mantra has become dogma. And yet, it is just not true. It's not like the only true thing. This is fundamentally an internet problem. You see, the thing about algorithms and now even worse with LLMs really is that they pit different ideas against each other in a popularity contest and one wins even though the other uh ideas that it's up against, they might also be equally true. And this is exactly what we've seen happen online with business advice. This one idea that businesses should solve customer problems, that businesses exist to solve customer problems, has won the algorithm battle. And therefore, it's created this illusion that this is how all businesses function and all businesses should function. But it is [ __ ] And two seconds of thought kind of shows you why. Like, what problem does Chanel fix? Really, you can make something up, but really like nothing. Because what do you know? Not all businesses actually operate that way. Not all businesses actually work that way. This is not the universal pattern behind how a business works. However, there is a universal pattern and this is what natural strategists are tuned into on that receiver in their brain. The universal pattern is creating value. Now, creating value and solving problems is not the same thing. Solving problems means that the customer has some conscious issue and you're coming along to provide them with the remedy. Creating value is broader. It contains solving problems but it's much much bigger. It means producing something that people want that wasn't there before regardless of whether this fixes something. So a great example of this that will really sort of like zone your mind into this idea is Disney World. Now, let's ask, did Disney World solve anybody's customer problem? Of course, of course it did not. Now, some people, you know, they could put their jobs to be done hat on and they could retrofit some nonsense about like, oh, families need a place to go on vacation or something like this. But like, nobody in the room with Walt Disney back in 1950 pitched it that way. They didn't find an unmet need. They created this experience that did not exist on the whole of planet Earth before, but then when people saw it, wow, they wanted it. Lego. And Lego is another great one. Nobody back in like the 40s or whenever it came out was walking around with this with a blockshaped hole in their life. Like kids had toys. In fact, kids already had blocks, wooden blocks, and there was no sort of unmet building needing to be addressed. But Lego, they just invented a form of play that didn't exist and it turned into obviously one of the most valuable brands on earth. Like the toy among toys. Another one that I like uh which also gives you a different angle on the same thing is Rafa, the cycling brand. I don't know if you know them. They're basically like premium cycling kit and they launched into a market that was obviously completely saturated with options. ASOS, Castelli, and like a hundred other things that you would be familiar with if you were into cycling, which I'm not really. But look, did cyclists have an unsolved like uh I need better shorts problem or something? Clearly not. But what Rafa did is they created a world view. They created a club literally. They created a culture and they made cycling feel a particular way that maybe it hadn't felt before. And they were able to charge double for the privilege of being part of it. None of this is problem solving, right? This is value creation. Value creation from thin air. It's magical. And the telltale sign that you are in problem solver mode rather than this natural strategist mode where we want to be is that ultimately your thinking it becomes small. It becomes narrowed down. You start obsessing over these little pain points and friction and what the survey says and the MPS scores and you sort of like have this mindset of like the the manager of a three star hotel in to something like how can we make this less bad? like how do we smooth out the rough edges of this thing? It's all so it's not useless stuff, but it's also like micro and bitty and unstrategic. Natural strategists, they don't think like this. They think, what could we bring into existence that would change how people see this category? Boom. Right? That is where you want to be living. That's where you want to be living in your head as a founder, as a CEO. This is thinking big. This is thinking that opens up a world of options that problem solving like it never can reach because it's always it's well beyond it. So this gives us the next question to routinely ask ourselves. What would the world miss if we our business was to disappear tomorrow? Would there be any lack left? Would there be a hole? Or would everything actually just purr on without missing a beat which is obviously for most businesses frankly the reality. If that is the reality, then it means that you haven't actually created any new thing that would be removed in your absence. Right? You can't optimize your way out of that problem. You have to think with real strategy. Okay. Natural strategy assumption number three, which the true greats are always thinking about, and it's an old chest up for me. Only is better than best. Now, you know, you if you've been following me for a while, you'll have heard me have this many times. And to be honest, to me now it seems so common sensical and like straightforward that I get bored of even talking about it. I mean come on, everybody knows this, don't they? But actually, weirdly no. It actually still seems to make some people's head explode. Maybe even yours. So, so let's just cover it briefly. Okay. Now, every business in the world, right, we should know this, is governed by two forces. Supply and demand. That's it. Nothing else matters. Quite literally. If the demand is too low, you're going to lose. And if the supply, i.e. the competition is too high, well, you're also going to lose. And it's kind of that simple. So, if you want your business to grow, ultimately there are two levers. You can either increase demand or you can decrease supply or preferably both. Now, most people are quite naturally obsessed with the first one, right? Most people spend their entire business lives chasing how do we make people want our thing? How do we reach more people? How do we scale? All these kind of questions. That's demand. There's nothing wrong with demand. You obviously need it. But almost nobody pays serious attention to the second lever, which is supply. And it's the only one that actually decides whether any of your demand converts or makes money. Because the thing is, no matter how high the demand for your thing is, if the supply of other similar options is also high, it's just not going to matter. You're a commodity, you might as well be selling something completely pointless. It all adds up to the same thing. It's the same difference. And that's why only is better than best is such an important idea to ingrain in yourself because it forces you to focus on the supply side of the equation that almost no leader ever thinks about because they're so obsessed with making something awesome. Now there are so many examples of this issue that we can see out there. Like take content, very topical one for me. Pre-2023 if you could produce good long form content at scale you were basically printing money. And I was one of those people. It was great. good times. Most people can't write, so good content was scarce, and the scarcity is what made it work. The low supply is what made it work. Now, however, everybody is just pumping [ __ ] out with AI. And honestly, some of it is good. I'm not going to sit here and say it's all rubbish. It isn't. And the fact that it's good is actually the problem because then that means there's too much good content. Therefore, the value of good content, it just collapses. Not because the content is bad, like I say, but because the supply has exploded. We see another thing going on clearly right now with software, don't we? It used to be that if you could like build a tool, if you could build so software, well, you know, that was a business. Most people couldn't do that or or wouldn't do that. But now, obviously, anyone with cursor and a pulse can can build a tool, can't they? Which means building these things by itself is just not a business anymore. The skill has been democratized. So, its value has gone to zero. Another one just briefly, one of my favorite examples of this as well, just a more old school one, is cold calling. It's uh it used to work brilliantly, right? I I am old enough to remember the days when you could just cold call people and sell them stuff. And then obviously predictive dialers came in and they made it cheap and then offshoring came in and it made it even cheaper. And then like automation even worse and what do you know now? Nobody answers their phones. So it is done. All of these examples of where supply goes up, value goes down, and you stop making money every single time, right? This is universal. This applies to everything. This is forever. So, we need to ask in our own industries, what do we do about this? And the answer is you stop asking how to make it better and you start asking how to make it unique. if that if that is a word. You try to do things that would be impossible for your competitors to copy, even if maybe they aren't actually like the best things from a demand generation perspective. It's uh it's probably actually going to mean doing something which undermines something important for the customer that removes it. Something that probably your competitors rely upon, which I'm going to talk about in a little bit. Natural strategists are supply thinkers just as much as they are demand thinkers, probably more if I'm honest. They constantly subconsciously ask, is what we are offering abundant or is it scarce? And if it's abundant, they know that the game is already lost and they need to get out. But if it's scarce, they're going to defend that scarcity with everything that they've got. So the next question that we want to be asking ourselves pretty much daily, get this into our body, is would our competitors claim that they also do what we do, that they also offer what we offer. Do not ask yourself if you're unique because that's too easy. You're just going to lie to yourself. Everybody does. You've got to ask if you think your competitors would agree with that statement. That is the necessary standard that we need to get over for it to actually be true. Finally, assumption number four that every natural strategist carries in their heart, and that is maybe the difficultest one. It is that innovation comes from sacrifice. Now, at this point in the video, I'm guessing maybe you would be nodding along with all the things that we've said. All right, Alex, I've got it. Yes. I mean, because it all sounds nice, doesn't it? Like, we have to do different things. We have to create value. Be the only. That's all. That's all fine. Great. Like, you know, whether you're doing it or not, you probably think, "Oh, I'm kind of like that." But you know the big question here is that like all that stuff sounds great on paper but how do we actually achieve it? It is like really really difficult because 40 years ago back when there were much fewer businesses. You could just look around, spot something no one else was doing and do it. There was all this lowhanging fruit there for the picking if you were sufficiently entrepreneurial which most people weren't. But where the hell are those ideas anymore? Every category is crowded. every obvious opportunity already has 12 funded startups chasing after it. It just kind of feels, I don't know about you, but this is how it feels to me. Feels like every good idea has been taken. So, where do these natural strategists, these mythical beasts, where do they keep finding these new ideas when the map just looks so full? Well, I will tell you, they find them on the other side of sacrifice. Now, what I mean is this. New ideas reveal themselves when you deliberately give up on something that most other people in your category consider extremely important. When you reject something that everyone else treats as sacred, like what if soap smelled terrible? Or what if a car was unreliable? Or what if a therapist was unsympathetic? Right? All of these kind of things like they sound completely stupid on the face of it. Why would that be good? But if you think about them deeply, new possibilities for new value start to emerge. Value that would never exist while those prior values were still in place. Now, the beautiful thing with this way of thinking is that any ideas you spot within it are going to be completely invisible to your competitors because you see, they never considered a world without the sacred thing. They literally cannot see what you can see. Look, I'm going to give you an example. Apologies for the clichéed example, but it's just such a big one, so it just really hammers it home. IKEA, ah, that old chestnut, the gift that keeps on giving. But let's just think about it a bit more deeply, right? PreIKEA, the sacred truths of the furniture industry with ease. Number one, furniture comes to you assembled. Two, it's delivered to your house. Three, it's made of real wood. And four, a salesperson will help you buy it. These were not nice to haves. These were just the fundamental elements of what it meant to sell furniture, to be a furniture brand. If you broke any of them in the 1950s, you just weren't running a furniture business anymore. But IKEA's founder, he looked at that list and he started crossing things off. How about you assemble the furniture yourself? How about you pick it up from the warehouse? How about it's made from horrible particle board instead of oak? How about you find the product yourself in this crazy like showroom with a little pencil and like a cart? Everything the industry considered essential, IKEA gave up. And what did these sacrifices give them back? Well, it gave them flatback, which meant cheap shipping. And cheap shipping meant global scale. And global scale meant prices that nobody had ever seen before, prices nobody could beat, which then meant an entire generation of renters suddenly had access to designer furniture for the first time in history. They created an entirely new category of accessible modern design that just did not exist before them. That did not exist before all these sacrifices. They also built an iconic retail experience. the maze, the meatballs, the Swedish flags, and all of that stuff that's become inseparable from the brand. None of this was available to a traditional furniture company who were doing everything right because a traditional furniture company would obviously never give up assembled delivery, but IKEA and all that other stuff, right? But IKEA did. And in return, they built the biggest furniture company in history. And obviously, the rest is history. This is the pattern. This is the formula if you like that is running in the background of the natural strategist mind. Every single natural strategist does this. They look at what the category treats as sacred and they ask this slightly psychopathic question. What if we just didn't? What if a taxi company didn't own any cars? Uber? How about a bank with no branches? Monzo, an airline without business class? Southwest? All these things? All these sacrifices. Each one opened up a world of value that the incumbents couldn't touch because the incumbents weren't prepared to cross that invisible line. Now look, let's be real. Sacrifice is genuinely hard. It hurts. It involves telling yourself that something you've been trained for your entire career to believe is essential actually isn't. And that is obviously why most people just can't think like this or don't want to think like this. You're all nodding along to the principle. I've never met anybody who doesn't nod along to this principle, but then they all walk back to their desk and they just refuse to give anything up. They want to have their cake and eat it too. But until you get that behavior in your body, you just can't innovate. Not not really. Not these days. You can optimize, yes, you can iterate, yes, you can tinker at the edges, but real innovation, actual new territory, it requires you to give something up that other people won't. So question four that we want to ask ourselves every day, the hardest question. What am I willing to let my competitors just have for themselves? Because remember, we're not just sacrificing something. We are actually giving it to our competitors and they will be happy that we are doing that. Notice how uncomfortable that question is. Notice how everything in you probably wants to say, "Well, uh, I don't want to give them anything. I want it all." But that instinct right there is exactly what's stopping you from innovating. So until you can answer this question honestly with something very specific, you are going to basically stay in this generic commodified space with everybody else. So these are the four behaviors of the natural strategist. They don't have to think about them. You and I do. If you drill yourself in these four questions and you let them run in the background of your thinking every day, you are going to stop struggling. It didn't just magically make business easier, but you just stopped playing it the hard way and you didn't even really even realize that it was happening. This is the whole game. This is how those natural strategists of your make it look so easy. If you want more of this stuff and to really start to bake this thinking in, well, that's what my newsletter, The Rare Mind, is all about. I write essays every week that drill these kind of thoughts and deeper ones into your skull. There's a link in the description. So now off you go and sacrifice