I make a hundred times more money through the thing that I'm teaching you through the thing that I'm teaching you right now than I did with my $240,000 right now than I did with my $240,000 degree. You don't understand that this degree. You don't understand that this is a possibility for you right now. is a possibility for you right now. Every one of us probably likes to Every one of us probably likes to monetize in some way. Whether it's monetize in some way. Whether it's through brand deals or your own offers, through brand deals or your own offers, whatever it may be, we want to have that whatever it may be, we want to have that opportunity. At the very least, we want opportunity. At the very least, we want the opportunity to do so whether or not the opportunity to do so whether or not we take it on. But how many of you guys we take it on. But how many of you guys are worried about, let's say, being too are worried about, let's say, being too salesy? How many of you guys are too salesy? How many of you guys are too worried about not knowing what to even worried about not knowing what to even sell? You don't even know what to offer. sell? You don't even know what to offer. You don't even know how people would buy You don't even know how people would buy from you. You have no idea how to price from you. You have no idea how to price something. You have no idea how to something. You have no idea how to package something. You have no idea how package something. You have no idea how to title something, how to name to title something, how to name something. You don't you have all this something. You don't you have all this imposter syndrome that's rolling through imposter syndrome that's rolling through you. And today, we're going to cover you. And today, we're going to cover everything that it's required to make everything that it's required to make the right content to sell so that the right content to sell so that selling becomes easy. And that is really selling becomes easy. And that is really through storytelling, but a specific through storytelling, but a specific type of storytelling. So, we're going to type of storytelling. So, we're going to break that all down. So, what if I told break that all down. So, what if I told you that there was a way to package your you that there was a way to package your knowledge as a musician? What if I told knowledge as a musician? What if I told you there was a way to package your you there was a way to package your knowledge as a illustrator? What if I knowledge as a illustrator? What if I told you there was a way to package your told you there was a way to package your information even as a stay-at-home information even as a stay-at-home parent or designer and actually start parent or designer and actually start monetizing online in a way that wasn't monetizing online in a way that wasn't salesy? Would you be interested in that? salesy? Would you be interested in that? Would you be interested to know at least Would you be interested to know at least the game plan for storytelling to the game plan for storytelling to ultimately get there? It does not mean ultimately get there? It does not mean that you have to even start selling now. that you have to even start selling now. It is just to set you up so that you It is just to set you up so that you even have the opportunity to sell. The even have the opportunity to sell. The honest truth is that I know creators honest truth is that I know creators that have millions of followers that that have millions of followers that can't monetize at all. Then I know can't monetize at all. Then I know creators that have 5,000 followers that creators that have 5,000 followers that I've helped them generate $100,000. I've helped them generate $100,000. There's different ways to sell, but There's different ways to sell, but there is one main way right now in 2026 there is one main way right now in 2026 that ultimately works the best. And it's that ultimately works the best. And it's actually taking advantage of something actually taking advantage of something you already have. You just have to learn you already have. You just have to learn how to leverage it. So if you don't know how to leverage it. So if you don't know who I am, my name is June U. And I am so who I am, my name is June U. And I am so passionate about this. I'm probably passionate about this. I'm probably going to talk your ears off for the next going to talk your ears off for the next several hours. I'm going to give you several hours. I'm going to give you everything that I possibly got. I have everything that I possibly got. I have no notes in front of me. I just have a no notes in front of me. I just have a deck of slides and probably at this deck of slides and probably at this point like 160 hours of preparation point like 160 hours of preparation because I'm trying to push the envelope because I'm trying to push the envelope of what is possible and what would of what is possible and what would somebody be willing to give away for somebody be willing to give away for free. I am willing to give all of this free. I am willing to give all of this away for free cuz I desperately want to away for free cuz I desperately want to see you win. My name is June. I've been see you win. My name is June. I've been creating content now for the last 6 and creating content now for the last 6 and 1/2 years. I made my fair share of 1/2 years. I made my fair share of mistakes. The first two and a half years mistakes. The first two and a half years sucked. I mean, I was posting every sucked. I mean, I was posting every single day, but I wasn't growing. And single day, but I wasn't growing. And ultimately, I didn't even want to show ultimately, I didn't even want to show up online anymore. Ultimately, I I had up online anymore. Ultimately, I I had to kind of re-engineer and destroy some to kind of re-engineer and destroy some old habits of mine and then come back to old habits of mine and then come back to building a better audience. I just want building a better audience. I just want to save you all that time and energy, to save you all that time and energy, right? Cuz today, I have over 5 million right? Cuz today, I have over 5 million followers on Instagram alone. I have followers on Instagram alone. I have generated $10 million in the last 12 generated $10 million in the last 12 months alone. I've worked with months alone. I've worked with Instagram. I've worked with Red Bull. I Instagram. I've worked with Red Bull. I get paid to speak at events. I get to get paid to speak at events. I get to travel around the world just because of travel around the world just because of the thing that I have in this brain of the thing that I have in this brain of mine. I was just recently at Can Lion. I mine. I was just recently at Can Lion. I was speaking at their main stage, the was speaking at their main stage, the same stage that Mel Robbins and Steven same stage that Mel Robbins and Steven Bartlett were speaking at. So that's my Bartlett were speaking at. So that's my reality. But ultimately, I want to give reality. But ultimately, I want to give this back to you. I want to make this this back to you. I want to make this accessible to you. I think you deserve accessible to you. I think you deserve to win. And why should this information to win. And why should this information be gatekept? I honestly think what be gatekept? I honestly think what happens to a lot of us is that we I'm happens to a lot of us is that we I'm just going to say we here cuz I'm hoping just going to say we here cuz I'm hoping that you agree. I don't think we're that you agree. I don't think we're afraid of hard work. I don't think we afraid of hard work. I don't think we are. I don't think you are. I don't are. I don't think you are. I don't think you're looking for a get-richqu think you're looking for a get-richqu scheme. I don't think so. At least in my scheme. I don't think so. At least in my audience, you definitely aren't. I think audience, you definitely aren't. I think what we want though is to channel our what we want though is to channel our energy in the right direction. We're not energy in the right direction. We're not afraid of working hard. We're afraid afraid of working hard. We're afraid that we're going to work hard and then that we're going to work hard and then realize that this wasn't the right realize that this wasn't the right direction to put that energy in. Like direction to put that energy in. Like you guys are here for the long term. you guys are here for the long term. Like you just wouldn't be here if that Like you just wouldn't be here if that wasn't the case. Like that's not my wasn't the case. Like that's not my people. You're just afraid that you're people. You're just afraid that you're going to pour all this energy and time going to pour all this energy and time into it. You're going to bury yourself into it. You're going to bury yourself publicly and then what will happen is publicly and then what will happen is that you have nothing to show for it. that you have nothing to show for it. You're going to give up and you're going You're going to give up and you're going to be like, "Oh, here's another thing to be like, "Oh, here's another thing that I thought was going to be easier, that I thought was going to be easier, but it wasn't actually easy." And so but it wasn't actually easy." And so it's not even as if there isn't good it's not even as if there isn't good information out there. It's actually a information out there. It's actually a lot of the times it's conflicting. It's lot of the times it's conflicting. It's conflating. You don't know who to listen conflating. You don't know who to listen to. You see, I am not a theorist. I am a to. You see, I am not a theorist. I am a practitioner. I will literally teach you practitioner. I will literally teach you everything that I know up to this point everything that I know up to this point in time to make your lives easier. So in time to make your lives easier. So that means I'm literally going to break that means I'm literally going to break down exactly how I've made the $10 down exactly how I've made the $10 million this past year. I'm not going to million this past year. I'm not going to hold anything back. I'm going to show hold anything back. I'm going to show you exactly how I package an offer, like you exactly how I package an offer, like what that even means. An offer just what that even means. An offer just means you're selling something online, means you're selling something online, right? And I'm going to show you how I right? And I'm going to show you how I do it. So no holds bar. All this is do it. So no holds bar. All this is going to be headed to your direction and going to be headed to your direction and ultimately you're going to win with it. ultimately you're going to win with it. Here's what you're going to get. One is Here's what you're going to get. One is that you're going to learn exactly what that you're going to learn exactly what storytelling is. Number two, you're storytelling is. Number two, you're going to learn how to put it into going to learn how to put it into content. And number three, you're going content. And number three, you're going to see how this physically leads to a to see how this physically leads to a potential asset or potential business. potential asset or potential business. And you can take it as far as you want. And you can take it as far as you want. So you can make 100 sales if you'd like. So you can make 100 sales if you'd like. You can make a thousand sales if you'd You can make a thousand sales if you'd like. You can make tens of thousands of like. You can make tens of thousands of sales like I have. Or you could just sales like I have. Or you could just choose to make one sale. It's entirely choose to make one sale. It's entirely up to you. But I want to give you the up to you. But I want to give you the opportunity to do this. I'm about to opportunity to do this. I'm about to make a claim you might not have heard make a claim you might not have heard before. Storytelling content is the best before. Storytelling content is the best way to sell online in 2026. It's the way to sell online in 2026. It's the best way to sell without sounding best way to sell without sounding salesy. It's the best way to sell salesy. It's the best way to sell without turning off your audience or without turning off your audience or being called a sellout or a course guru being called a sellout or a course guru or whatever you want to call it. It's or whatever you want to call it. It's the best way to sell without losing the best way to sell without losing followers, without sacrificing growth. followers, without sacrificing growth. Because it's the best way to sell and Because it's the best way to sell and grow at the exact same time. It's the grow at the exact same time. It's the best way for your product or service to best way for your product or service to stand out in a crowded feed. Because stand out in a crowded feed. Because there is nothing nothing more there is nothing nothing more attractive, especially in the age of AI, attractive, especially in the age of AI, than being human. And there is nothing than being human. And there is nothing more human than your stories. I had deep more human than your stories. I had deep insecurities which I believe stemmed insecurities which I believe stemmed [music] from having such a different [music] from having such a different upbringing than those around me. My upbringing than those around me. My family immigrated from Korea to the US family immigrated from Korea to the US when I was 3 years old. My parents never when I was 3 years old. My parents never spoke English. My dad worked spoke English. My dad worked construction 12 hours a day and my mom construction 12 hours a day and my mom worked as a nail tack. But no matter how worked as a nail tack. But no matter how hard they tried, we found ourselves in hard they tried, we found ourselves in hundreds of thousands of [music] dollars hundreds of thousands of [music] dollars in debt. When I was just 13, my mom, who in debt. When I was just 13, my mom, who was my best friend at the time, left was my best friend at the time, left overnight to a different country overnight to a different country permanently, and I lost contact with her permanently, and I lost contact with her for 10 [music] years. My parents for 10 [music] years. My parents divorced over the phone and our divorced over the phone and our financial troubles worsened until we had financial troubles worsened until we had to sell our childhood home and moved to sell our childhood home and moved five times in just a few years [music] five times in just a few years [music] into smaller and smaller homes. into smaller and smaller homes. Eventually, my brother and I shared a Eventually, my brother and I shared a small room and my dad slept on the small room and my dad slept on the living room floor. Through it all, I I living room floor. Through it all, I I felt this great calling to be the one to felt this great calling to be the one to provide for [music] my family. So, I did provide for [music] my family. So, I did everything I could. I went from troubled everything I could. I went from troubled student in high school to being at the student in high school to being at the top of my class as I [music] was getting top of my class as I [music] was getting my bachelor's and masters in biomedical my bachelor's and masters in biomedical engineering simultaneously. I worked odd engineering simultaneously. I worked odd jobs like being a server and tried to jobs like being a server and tried to find ways to earn from my family. And find ways to earn from my family. And then in 2020, Tik Tok [music] gave rise then in 2020, Tik Tok [music] gave rise to short form content. So I jumped on to short form content. So I jumped on that opportunity although very nervous that opportunity although very nervous considering I [music] had no creative considering I [music] had no creative nor business background. In fact, nor business background. In fact, biomedical engineering could not be a biomedical engineering could not be a more polar opposite field. [music] So more polar opposite field. [music] So there was this constant dilemma where I there was this constant dilemma where I didn't feel confident posting and at the didn't feel confident posting and at the same time passive aggressive comments same time passive aggressive comments like [music] you're trying too hard or like [music] you're trying too hard or you still doing that influencer thing you still doing that influencer thing were a norm. I first started with were a norm. I first started with fashion and fitness content because I fashion and fitness content because I thought they were the cool things to do. thought they were the cool things to do. I tried every trend, but still found I tried every trend, but still found myself in the 200 [music] view jail. myself in the 200 [music] view jail. However, the one thing I promised myself However, the one thing I promised myself was that I would show up regardless. And was that I would show up regardless. And after posting daily for a year, I after posting daily for a year, I finally saw some traction. But I decided finally saw some traction. But I decided I wanted to make meaningful content and I wanted to make meaningful content and start helping [music] people. And this start helping [music] people. And this is when I started to use everything I've is when I started to use everything I've learned as an engineer to create a learned as an engineer to create a data-driven [music] content system. This data-driven [music] content system. This made showing up daily easy. And made showing up daily easy. And ultimately, it was that system that ultimately, it was that system that brought me [music] into my first brought me [music] into my first 100,000, 1 million, and 5 million 100,000, 1 million, and 5 million followers. I was also able to use that followers. I was also able to use that system to monetize. First was My Guide system to monetize. First was My Guide to Academic [music] Success, which to Academic [music] Success, which earned $100,000 for four consecutive earned $100,000 for four consecutive months. Then the Learning System book, months. Then the Learning System book, which landed [music] number one on which landed [music] number one on Amazon's new releases and skyrocketed Amazon's new releases and skyrocketed the business to over a million dollars the business to over a million dollars in just 10 months. I was still a student in just 10 months. I was still a student throughout this entire time. And I throughout this entire time. And I actually remember sitting in my actually remember sitting in my classroom when I saw that $1 million classroom when I saw that $1 million notification. [music] And now I find so notification. [music] And now I find so much joy in helping other creators win. much joy in helping other creators win. Watching someone go from insecure to Watching someone go from insecure to finally finding their voice. from finally finding their voice. from doubting themselves [music] to seeing doubting themselves [music] to seeing their first million views. From working their first million views. From working overtime to creating a life where they overtime to creating a life where they can be more present with the people they can be more present with the people they love. Whether it's moms, working love. Whether it's moms, working professionals, [music] professionals, [music] business owners, or coaches, I truly business owners, or coaches, I truly believe everyone has a story worth believe everyone has a story worth sharing. And I have the most fun helping sharing. And I have the most fun helping [music] turn those stories into [music] turn those stories into meaningful and transformational content. meaningful and transformational content. It's hard to explain, but seeing their It's hard to explain, but seeing their face light up when it finally clicks, face light up when it finally clicks, that feeling is [music] truly addicting. that feeling is [music] truly addicting. Of course, my own journey has given me Of course, my own journey has given me the opportunity to build incredible the opportunity to build incredible businesses and [music] work with amazing businesses and [music] work with amazing brands, which I am forever grateful for. brands, which I am forever grateful for. But the biggest win is being able to But the biggest win is being able to serve others and help them win, too. I serve others and help them win, too. I know how hard it is. So, if I can know how hard it is. So, if I can alleviate any of the pain, it is [music] alleviate any of the pain, it is [music] my greatest honor. Because when one my greatest honor. Because when one person finds their voice, it doesn't person finds their voice, it doesn't just change their life, it touches just change their life, it touches thousands [music] of others, they will thousands [music] of others, they will reach with their content. And that reach with their content. And that ripple is what makes all of this ripple is what makes all of this meaningful. You deserve to win and I meaningful. You deserve to win and I would do whatever it takes to get you would do whatever it takes to get you there. Man, is this stuff hard. Like, it there. Man, is this stuff hard. Like, it is all so unbelievably hard. Like, I is all so unbelievably hard. Like, I haven't slept at all in like 3 weeks haven't slept at all in like 3 weeks preparing for this. I care so deeply preparing for this. I care so deeply about this. Like, I want you to win. I about this. Like, I want you to win. I desperately want to see you win to make desperately want to see you win to make sure that you don't have to go through sure that you don't have to go through the same struggles that I went through. the same struggles that I went through. I I can't believe how tough it was for I I can't believe how tough it was for me the first two and a half, three me the first two and a half, three years, and I'm so proud of my younger years, and I'm so proud of my younger self to actually persevere through it. self to actually persevere through it. But if I can make that journey easier But if I can make that journey easier for you, I think this this is all worth for you, I think this this is all worth it. So, I want to talk about a little it. So, I want to talk about a little bit of of my origin. I want to speak to bit of of my origin. I want to speak to it because I'm not supposed to be here it because I'm not supposed to be here by any stretch of the imagination. And by any stretch of the imagination. And that is why I pushed myself as hard as I that is why I pushed myself as hard as I pushed myself. I immigrated from Korea pushed myself. I immigrated from Korea to the US when I was just 3 years old. I to the US when I was just 3 years old. I was raised by a single dad. My mom, who was raised by a single dad. My mom, who was my best friend, left overnight to a was my best friend, left overnight to a completely different country, and I lost completely different country, and I lost contact with her for 10 years. So, all I contact with her for 10 years. So, all I saw was suffering. We had to move from saw was suffering. We had to move from home to home until we were in a tiny home to home until we were in a tiny apartment and my brother and I were apartment and my brother and I were sharing a very very very small space sharing a very very very small space between the two of us and my dad was between the two of us and my dad was sleeping on the living room floor. Like sleeping on the living room floor. Like it feels like it was yesterday cuz I it feels like it was yesterday cuz I recall it. Like I would come home and recall it. Like I would come home and that's the suffering I would see every that's the suffering I would see every single day. And for me, I've always had single day. And for me, I've always had this great chip on my shoulder to this great chip on my shoulder to provide. I've always had a great chip on provide. I've always had a great chip on my shoulder to end the generational my shoulder to end the generational trauma. I've always had this great chip trauma. I've always had this great chip on my shoulder to try and finally end on my shoulder to try and finally end all that suffering, to finally do all that suffering, to finally do something about it as my parents grew something about it as my parents grew older. Unfortunately, my grandma passed older. Unfortunately, my grandma passed away a month and a half ago. And and away a month and a half ago. And and even that like experience kind of like even that like experience kind of like really hit home at at all of this. And really hit home at at all of this. And and it just reminds me every single day and it just reminds me every single day of why I do what I do. And ultimately, of why I do what I do. And ultimately, I'm important to you because if you're I'm important to you because if you're here, I would assume that you're like here, I would assume that you're like me. You see, in 2020, I I had no skill. me. You see, in 2020, I I had no skill. I had no creative, no business I had no creative, no business expertise. I never read a business book expertise. I never read a business book ever before. I was a full-time ever before. I was a full-time bachelor's and masters biomedical bachelor's and masters biomedical engineering student living in the engineering student living in the basement of this run old down building basement of this run old down building and living off of Chipotle and that was and living off of Chipotle and that was my only meals and this is this is my my only meals and this is this is my first set of videos. Like I used to talk first set of videos. Like I used to talk in front of the camera like this. This in front of the camera like this. This was my 20th take and I still felt was my 20th take and I still felt incredibly awkward. I'm not sure who incredibly awkward. I'm not sure who needs to hear this right now, but just needs to hear this right now, but just hold on. I know you're broken. I know hold on. I know you're broken. I know you feel alone. I know it feels like you feel alone. I know it feels like that the world around you is crumbling that the world around you is crumbling and there's nothing you can do to and there's nothing you can do to [music] save it. But I want you to know [music] save it. But I want you to know this this that sometimes things have to fall apart that sometimes things have to fall apart in order to make way for better things. in order to make way for better things. Cuz you see, when it feels things have Cuz you see, when it feels things have to fall apart in order to make way for to fall apart in order to make way for better things. No matter how awkward better things. No matter how awkward this kid was in front of a camera, he this kid was in front of a camera, he certainly had a voice to be heard. You certainly had a voice to be heard. You see, in 2020, I had a willingness to see, in 2020, I had a willingness to persevere through this awkward stage persevere through this awkward stage that many of you guys are still in. In that many of you guys are still in. In 2021, I was posting, but I had no reach. 2021, I was posting, but I had no reach. I kept losing followers. But what I did I kept losing followers. But what I did have was the ability to study and create have was the ability to study and create systems from my engineering background. systems from my engineering background. So I used to carry around like 47 So I used to carry around like 47 notebooks that looked just like this in notebooks that looked just like this in different colors. And basically what I different colors. And basically what I would do is just write down everything would do is just write down everything from formats to messaging angles to from formats to messaging angles to hooks to whatever caused me the most hooks to whatever caused me the most amount of engagement. And I started amount of engagement. And I started doubling down. And what did I double doubling down. And what did I double down on? Obviously the things that were down on? Obviously the things that were working. And even back then storytelling working. And even back then storytelling was the thing that always allowed me to was the thing that always allowed me to win. Even as a student, I was a broke win. Even as a student, I was a broke student. I guarantee every single one of student. I guarantee every single one of you who was ever a student before, which you who was ever a student before, which is every single one of you, hated is every single one of you, hated school, thought it was the most boring school, thought it was the most boring thing ever, and couldn't wait till you thing ever, and couldn't wait till you were done. I picked up a phone, even the were done. I picked up a phone, even the most boring and mundane spots, I picked most boring and mundane spots, I picked up a phone, and you're going to tell me up a phone, and you're going to tell me like, "Oh, I can't do this as a real like, "Oh, I can't do this as a real estate agent. Oh, I can't do this as an estate agent. Oh, I can't do this as an artist, a pianist, a musician. Are you artist, a pianist, a musician. Are you kidding me?" Like, you thought school kidding me?" Like, you thought school was significantly more boring than that, was significantly more boring than that, right? I did it as a student. What you right? I did it as a student. What you think is boring is because it has become think is boring is because it has become routine. If it has been routine for you, routine. If it has been routine for you, I guarantee it's relatable for somebody I guarantee it's relatable for somebody else. If that means it's relatable, if else. If that means it's relatable, if you find meaning in it, then guess what? you find meaning in it, then guess what? That's your superpower you're about to That's your superpower you're about to unlock. You could reach millions of unlock. You could reach millions of people. And that's what I did as a people. And that's what I did as a student. You see, in 2023, I started to student. You see, in 2023, I started to go deeper with my story. And that go deeper with my story. And that connection with my audience started to connection with my audience started to change. It wasn't like, "Hey, fire change. It wasn't like, "Hey, fire emoji, good outfit, dude." It was like, emoji, good outfit, dude." It was like, "Hey, you changed my life. This is so "Hey, you changed my life. This is so meaningful to me. Thank you so much for meaningful to me. Thank you so much for this reminder. You've made me feel less this reminder. You've made me feel less alone." Then in 2024, with still no alone." Then in 2024, with still no business background, without ever having business background, without ever having read a business book, without ever read a business book, without ever having watched a business YouTube video, having watched a business YouTube video, I actually started my very first I actually started my very first business. I had released a PDF. Could business. I had released a PDF. Could you believe that that thing made me a you believe that that thing made me a million dollars while I was still a million dollars while I was still a student? It did. It was called the guide student? It did. It was called the guide to academic success, a 63page guide. Not to academic success, a 63page guide. Not because I was a good business because I was a good business professional, but because I was good at professional, but because I was good at content. I was good at storytelling. content. I was good at storytelling. I've worked with Many Chat, Red Bull. I've worked with Many Chat, Red Bull. I've spoken on stages. And in 2025, I I've spoken on stages. And in 2025, I started a business called Creator started a business called Creator College. Ever since then, I've been on a College. Ever since then, I've been on a mission, a terror, a sprint. I've been mission, a terror, a sprint. I've been here to try and help people like here to try and help people like yourselves tell their stories. How many yourselves tell their stories. How many of you guys have a voice that you want of you guys have a voice that you want to have actually heard? How many of you to have actually heard? How many of you guys have been discounting it your guys have been discounting it your entire lives? How many of you guys have entire lives? How many of you guys have grown familiar to that opportunity where grown familiar to that opportunity where it's like, ah, okay, I have something I it's like, ah, okay, I have something I want to do, but I'm going to put the want to do, but I'm going to put the needs of everyone else in front of me needs of everyone else in front of me before I even get a chance to think before I even get a chance to think about my own needs. How many of you guys about my own needs. How many of you guys have been constantly every single time have been constantly every single time that you try to step up and speak aloud that you try to step up and speak aloud your own thoughts, you've been told to your own thoughts, you've been told to quiet down? Those are my people and quiet down? Those are my people and those are the stories that I want to those are the stories that I want to have be heard. But in the beginning, it have be heard. But in the beginning, it wasn't as if I was overly confident. In wasn't as if I was overly confident. In the beginning, I had a lot of fears. But the beginning, I had a lot of fears. But interestingly, all those fears vanished interestingly, all those fears vanished when I realized one thing. It's not when I realized one thing. It's not actually about being a sleazy car actually about being a sleazy car salesman cuz like that's what I thought salesman cuz like that's what I thought about when I thought about selling. It about when I thought about selling. It was actually about serving other people was actually about serving other people and realizing there was no better person and realizing there was no better person to help with an experience than me to help with an experience than me because I actually care about my work. because I actually care about my work. And secondly, I've lived my experience. And secondly, I've lived my experience. At least I can speak to that truth. So At least I can speak to that truth. So I'm like, why not me then? Why not me? I'm like, why not me then? Why not me? Why not me? Why can't I do it? In the Why not me? Why can't I do it? In the past 12 months on that tear, I've been past 12 months on that tear, I've been able to help multiple creators change able to help multiple creators change their lives, right? Just people all their lives, right? Just people all around the world like yourselves. People around the world like yourselves. People that have come in, didn't know a single that have come in, didn't know a single thing about content. This is a thing about content. This is a hairdresser and she was able to grow I hairdresser and she was able to grow I think she's at like hundreds of think she's at like hundreds of thousands of followers now. She sold a thousands of followers now. She sold a digital product, made more money than digital product, made more money than she knew what to do with. Then I helped she knew what to do with. Then I helped someone with a $100,000 launch named someone with a $100,000 launch named Arabella. Then I've helped a coach named Arabella. Then I've helped a coach named Danielle make $150,000 in cash in a Danielle make $150,000 in cash in a single month. This is coach Michael who single month. This is coach Michael who made a million dollars I believe in the made a million dollars I believe in the last year and a half, two years. Then we last year and a half, two years. Then we got Maggie and Data who made their first got Maggie and Data who made their first six figure years of creating content. six figure years of creating content. But I say this with the thought of you But I say this with the thought of you being like, "Oh, there's no way that being like, "Oh, there's no way that that's possible." Like be skeptical. that's possible." Like be skeptical. Like challenge me. Be skeptical. It's a Like challenge me. Be skeptical. It's a good thing cuz I'm going to break your good thing cuz I'm going to break your brains. Like I'm going to I'm going to brains. Like I'm going to I'm going to do that. I'm going to blow your mind. do that. I'm going to blow your mind. You're going to be like, "What the You're going to be like, "What the heck?" Like I I didn't know it was heck?" Like I I didn't know it was possible. I want you to be skeptical cuz possible. I want you to be skeptical cuz I know that I could deliver upon this I know that I could deliver upon this promise. Felicity Morgan was a promise. Felicity Morgan was a successful coach before I ever worked successful coach before I ever worked with her. She was smart. She was with her. She was smart. She was intelligent. And she was a pure expert. intelligent. And she was a pure expert. But she had plateaued after years of But she had plateaued after years of creating content at 54,000 followers. creating content at 54,000 followers. And I told her, "You can't just keep And I told her, "You can't just keep talking at your audience. You can't just talking at your audience. You can't just become an educator. You have to tell become an educator. You have to tell your stories. But on the back end of a your stories. But on the back end of a story, you can put a call to action. You story, you can put a call to action. You can sell a service or you can sell an can sell a service or you can sell an offer. And there you go. That is how you offer. And there you go. That is how you can actually attract new people and make can actually attract new people and make money at the same time. This is the money at the same time. This is the content we worked on together that she content we worked on together that she had posted. had posted. &gt;&gt; Elena got caught up with the wrong crowd &gt;&gt; Elena got caught up with the wrong crowd and ended up in trouble at school. You'd and ended up in trouble at school. You'd be surprised by how I handled it. First, be surprised by how I handled it. First, I was triggered. I wanted to ground him, I was triggered. I wanted to ground him, rip him away from those friends, say rip him away from those friends, say that you're never seeing them again, but that you're never seeing them again, but I didn't. Instead, I asked myself, what I didn't. Instead, I asked myself, what haven't I taught him yet that's led to haven't I taught him yet that's led to this? The answer, he didn't know how to this? The answer, he didn't know how to tell which friendships were pulling him tell which friendships were pulling him out of integrity. He didn't have the out of integrity. He didn't have the skill to choose what was good for him. skill to choose what was good for him. So, I stayed up late for 3 days and So, I stayed up late for 3 days and created a worksheet, not to make him created a worksheet, not to make him feel bad, but to help him reflect on how feel bad, but to help him reflect on how he was letting others. he was letting others. &gt;&gt; Just think about what she's doing in &gt;&gt; Just think about what she's doing in real time. This is now a story. All of a real time. This is now a story. All of a sudden, it doesn't feel like you're sudden, it doesn't feel like you're talking at me, talking down at me. I talking at me, talking down at me. I don't feel like I'm talking to an don't feel like I'm talking to an expert. I feel like I'm talking to expert. I feel like I'm talking to another mom. I feel like I'm talking to another mom. I feel like I'm talking to a peer. a peer. &gt;&gt; Shape who he became and why. First, he &gt;&gt; Shape who he became and why. First, he resisted, but then one activity cracked resisted, but then one activity cracked him open. He said, "Mom, I feel anxious him open. He said, "Mom, I feel anxious around X. I don't think he's good for around X. I don't think he's good for me. I don't like who I am when I'm with me. I don't like who I am when I'm with them. This was the moment. Instead of them. This was the moment. Instead of protecting him from others, I gave him protecting him from others, I gave him the skill to protect himself. That is the skill to protect himself. That is what conscious parenting is. And because what conscious parenting is. And because of how powerful it was for Orlando, I've of how powerful it was for Orlando, I've made it available for other kids, too. made it available for other kids, too. Just comment worksheet and I'll send you Just comment worksheet and I'll send you the link. the link. &gt;&gt; Ah, but June, this is cute. It's a cute &gt;&gt; Ah, but June, this is cute. It's a cute piece of content, but business people piece of content, but business people would never do that. And so, when you would never do that. And so, when you showed me this on Monday, then you're showed me this on Monday, then you're telling me that it was a completely telling me that it was a completely different type of content that you were different type of content that you were curating from the past. This one curating from the past. This one &gt;&gt; Elena got caught up with the wrong &gt;&gt; Elena got caught up with the wrong &gt;&gt; and &gt;&gt; and &gt;&gt; I've never done this one before. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I've never done this one before. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Which is brilliant. And remind me just &gt;&gt; Which is brilliant. And remind me just how successful this was from, let's say, how successful this was from, let's say, conversion standpoint. Was it like very conversion standpoint. Was it like very successful? successful? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think from this including &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think from this including going into other things, it would be going into other things, it would be around $160,000. around $160,000. &gt;&gt; 160,000 AUD. You think that storytelling &gt;&gt; 160,000 AUD. You think that storytelling doesn't sell? You are out of your mind. doesn't sell? You are out of your mind. Storytelling makes a normal mom like Storytelling makes a normal mom like herself become an educator that people herself become an educator that people care about. Let's look at another one. care about. Let's look at another one. If you don't believe me, I'm going to If you don't believe me, I'm going to show you a few more examples and we're show you a few more examples and we're going to be breaking down exactly what going to be breaking down exactly what they're doing. Let's look at Erica Cruz. they're doing. Let's look at Erica Cruz. So Erica Cruz, same idea. She came in So Erica Cruz, same idea. She came in and she's like, "June, I've been and she's like, "June, I've been creating content. I've plateaued after a creating content. I've plateaued after a while, but I sell high ticket offers, while, but I sell high ticket offers, June. I sell high tickets. There's no June. I sell high tickets. There's no way I can sell high ticket offers with way I can sell high ticket offers with organic content. I can't sell coaching organic content. I can't sell coaching this way. I can't do one on's this way. this way. I can't do one on's this way. I can't sell cohorts this way." But I can't sell cohorts this way." But she's like, "I'm going to trust you, she's like, "I'm going to trust you, June, because you obviously know what June, because you obviously know what the heck you're talking about." And I the heck you're talking about." And I told her to make this video. In fact, told her to make this video. In fact, this is like my exact video that I've this is like my exact video that I've made that I gave her as a template. She made that I gave her as a template. She utilized it. She got 187,000 views. I utilized it. She got 187,000 views. I want you to listen to it and think about want you to listen to it and think about and think, how do I feel as a result of and think, how do I feel as a result of this video? Am I actually losing this video? Am I actually losing credibility as a business owner by credibility as a business owner by telling my story, or do I feel human to telling my story, or do I feel human to my audience? my audience? [music] Hear [music] my heart burst again [music] again [music] for this is the end. I drowned and dreamed this moment. [music] So overdo I [music] [music] swept away and sto [bell] do you think that this hurts her credibility as a business owner? I credibility as a business owner? I remember when I told Felicity to tell remember when I told Felicity to tell her story in front of everyone she's her story in front of everyone she's like I'm not doing it. and she's like, like I'm not doing it. and she's like, "I don't want to do it. I don't want to "I don't want to do it. I don't want to tell my story." And I was like, "All tell my story." And I was like, "All right, cool. Stay stuck where you at. right, cool. Stay stuck where you at. I'm good." And then we moved on and she I'm good." And then we moved on and she did it, right? And she did. And now did it, right? And she did. And now she's great. She's amazing at it. They she's great. She's amazing at it. They come in because they want money. They come in because they want money. They come in because they want to build come in because they want to build businesses. They want to build impact. businesses. They want to build impact. Storytelling is the vehicle to do it. Storytelling is the vehicle to do it. They realize though after telling their They realize though after telling their story, "Holy cow, my comments change, my story, "Holy cow, my comments change, my engagement changed." She got 10 paid engagement changed." She got 10 paid high ticket clients off of videos like high ticket clients off of videos like this after not being able to sell a this after not being able to sell a single thing before. Now, let's look at single thing before. Now, let's look at Boxy, right? Boxy, same thing where he Boxy, right? Boxy, same thing where he was actually quite burnt out. So, he was was actually quite burnt out. So, he was a new dad. He's like, "I don't want to a new dad. He's like, "I don't want to create content. I just don't want to. I create content. I just don't want to. I find no joy in it." I was like, "Well, find no joy in it." I was like, "Well, maybe you don't find joy in it because maybe you don't find joy in it because you're teaching the same workout and you're teaching the same workout and bicep tips and the same ab routines. bicep tips and the same ab routines. Maybe we should start talking about your Maybe we should start talking about your story and how you got there." He did a story and how you got there." He did a carousel like this, ultimately made carousel like this, ultimately made 20,000 AUD with high ticket coaching 20,000 AUD with high ticket coaching clients. How's that possible with clients. How's that possible with organic content? It's all through organic content? It's all through storytelling. We're going to break down storytelling. We're going to break down exactly how we're doing these posts. exactly how we're doing these posts. We're going to break down how you can do We're going to break down how you can do it. I'm going to give you prompts all it. I'm going to give you prompts all the way through. I am not a theorist. I the way through. I am not a theorist. I am a practitioner. Every day I fail. am a practitioner. Every day I fail. Every day I challenge myself to learn Every day I challenge myself to learn something new. Every single day I want something new. Every single day I want to push the boundaries of what is to push the boundaries of what is possible. Not because I'm afraid of possible. Not because I'm afraid of failing, but because I actually want to failing, but because I actually want to learn the latest new strategy so I can learn the latest new strategy so I can give it to you. Individuals with give it to you. Individuals with audiences are disrupting every industry audiences are disrupting every industry as we know them. Because people buy into as we know them. Because people buy into people. People buy into people. People people. People buy into people. People buy into people. the food and beverage buy into people. the food and beverage industry right now. You would think industry right now. You would think about New Tonic with Chris Williamson about New Tonic with Chris Williamson and James Smith or Feastables with Mr. and James Smith or Feastables with Mr. Beast or Joy Ride with Ryan Shanahan or Beast or Joy Ride with Ryan Shanahan or Bloom by Marie Llewellyn or Beauty and Bloom by Marie Llewellyn or Beauty and Skincare Rare Beauty by Selena Gomez or Skincare Rare Beauty by Selena Gomez or Kylie Cosmetics of Kylie Jenner or Road Kylie Cosmetics of Kylie Jenner or Road with Haley Bieber or Huda Beauty with with Haley Bieber or Huda Beauty with Huda Katan or Ali Abdal Maris Brownley, Huda Katan or Ali Abdal Maris Brownley, Tim Ferris, Gary Vaynerchuk, they're all Tim Ferris, Gary Vaynerchuk, they're all making tens of millions of dollars. making tens of millions of dollars. They're making hundreds of millions of They're making hundreds of millions of dollars on the backs of their personal dollars on the backs of their personal brands. Or fitness and health. Anyone brands. Or fitness and health. Anyone know Kayla Nis with Sweat or Pop Flex know Kayla Nis with Sweat or Pop Flex with Casey Hoe or We Rise by Sonata Grea with Casey Hoe or We Rise by Sonata Grea or Raw Nutrition by Chris Bumstead or or Raw Nutrition by Chris Bumstead or Steven Bartlett, Vivian 2, Alex Heroszi, Steven Bartlett, Vivian 2, Alex Heroszi, Humphrey Yang, every single one of them Humphrey Yang, every single one of them have many businesses under their one have many businesses under their one personal brand because personal brands personal brand because personal brands are everything right now. People buy in are everything right now. People buy in to people. Now the issue though is all to people. Now the issue though is all of them have like hundreds of employees of them have like hundreds of employees doing the thing for them. You guys doing the thing for them. You guys don't. And it's not fair that you don't don't. And it's not fair that you don't have these resources in front of you. have these resources in front of you. So, I'm going to break it down for you So, I'm going to break it down for you because a lot of them look at my content because a lot of them look at my content for work. So, I'm going to go ahead and for work. So, I'm going to go ahead and ensure that all of you guys get this on ensure that all of you guys get this on a silver platter today because a silver platter today because storytelling content is the best type of storytelling content is the best type of content to sell with. This storytelling content to sell with. This storytelling content challenge and storytelling in content challenge and storytelling in general is going to matter more than general is going to matter more than ever cuz feeds are getting flooded with ever cuz feeds are getting flooded with AI generated generic expertled content. AI generated generic expertled content. People aren't short of information, People aren't short of information, they're short on connection. People they're short on connection. People don't buy from brands, they buy from don't buy from brands, they buy from people they feel like they know. Stories people they feel like they know. Stories are what makes someone feel like they are what makes someone feel like they know you before you ever pitch them know you before you ever pitch them anything. Here's what actually you guys anything. Here's what actually you guys don't get because right now most of you don't get because right now most of you are here. Anyone that is a coach or an are here. Anyone that is a coach or an expert in your field, listen to me very expert in your field, listen to me very carefully. Listen to me very carefully. carefully. Listen to me very carefully. I'm calling you out in the best I'm calling you out in the best healthiest way possible. You are already healthiest way possible. You are already smart. You're already skilled. You're smart. You're already skilled. You're good at what you do. You're very good at what you do. You're very successful. When you're focused on successful. When you're focused on fulfilling, you can fulfill your service fulfilling, you can fulfill your service very well. You're very good at teaching. very well. You're very good at teaching. But right now, right now, if you know But right now, right now, if you know that expertise right now, if you have that expertise right now, if you have that information inside of you, it's not that information inside of you, it's not enough to attract the audience. It's not enough to attract the audience. It's not enough. So, for example, you can speak enough. So, for example, you can speak in front of 300 people in an already in front of 300 people in an already filled room. You can do that and you're filled room. You can do that and you're very great at it. People believe that, very great at it. People believe that, but how the heck are you going to fill but how the heck are you going to fill up that room? You're not doing it. up that room? You're not doing it. You're probably doing it because you're You're probably doing it because you're underneath a business or something or underneath a business or something or someone asked you to come to their someone asked you to come to their event. It's not your event. How the heck event. It's not your event. How the heck are you get a thousand people in that are you get a thousand people in that room? You have to learn social media. room? You have to learn social media. You have to learn content. And content, You have to learn content. And content, the best way to attract new people is by the best way to attract new people is by giving them a reason to care. And that giving them a reason to care. And that is through storytelling. Bringing is through storytelling. Bringing someone into your world and helping them someone into your world and helping them actually understand who you are is how actually understand who you are is how you're never going to run out of people you're never going to run out of people to sell to. You're never going to feel to sell to. You're never going to feel like your impact is limited. You will like your impact is limited. You will always be able to earn more. You'll always be able to earn more. You'll always be able to grow more. You'll always be able to grow more. You'll always be able to serve more. That's the always be able to serve more. That's the gap right now. Right now. And that gap right now. Right now. And that storytelling is going to be filling that storytelling is going to be filling that gap. So right now you're doing the same gap. So right now you're doing the same tips over and over and over again. tips over and over and over again. You're doing the same thing that every You're doing the same thing that every other expert in the space is doing. other expert in the space is doing. You're thinking, "Okay, this is the You're thinking, "Okay, this is the thing that's going to be helping me thing that's going to be helping me win." But viewers say, "I've seen this win." But viewers say, "I've seen this before." Storytelling content bridges before." Storytelling content bridges you to this other side where viewers you to this other side where viewers actually become invested in you. You actually become invested in you. You see, storytelling doesn't sell your see, storytelling doesn't sell your product. It's the reason that people product. It's the reason that people care. It sells identification. People care. It sells identification. People say, "Ah, that's me. I see myself in say, "Ah, that's me. I see myself in them." It sells trust. It's like, "Oh, I them." It sells trust. It's like, "Oh, I feel like I know this person." It sells feel like I know this person." It sells belief. Oh, it's worked for them. and belief. Oh, it's worked for them. and they're like me, then it can work for they're like me, then it can work for me. And storytelling content, me. And storytelling content, storytelling content, just one of them, storytelling content, just one of them, can scale all three of these impacts to can scale all three of these impacts to thousands of people all across the world thousands of people all across the world that you wouldn't otherwise reach. What that you wouldn't otherwise reach. What is your other best opportunity? You is your other best opportunity? You going to use ads? Great. Are you very going to use ads? Great. Are you very rich? If not, good luck. What else are rich? If not, good luck. What else are you going to do? Word of mouth? Yeah, you going to do? Word of mouth? Yeah, always be limited to that. But content, always be limited to that. But content, something that is completely free for something that is completely free for you. The storytelling can actually scale you. The storytelling can actually scale that trust to thousands of people that that trust to thousands of people that you couldn't otherwise reach. Once you couldn't otherwise reach. Once someone feels those three things, someone feels those three things, conversion isn't a hard sell. It's their conversion isn't a hard sell. It's their natural next step. A lot of you guys are natural next step. A lot of you guys are doing this type of content, okay? You're doing this type of content, okay? You're showing the final product. You're showing the final product. You're showing your work. [music] But if I'm scrolling through social media, why the heck would I care? Why is media, why the heck would I care? Why is this relevant to me? But think about the this relevant to me? But think about the difference. This is my student, difference. This is my student, Michelle. Michelle was like, "Hey, I Michelle. Michelle was like, "Hey, I don't know what's going on. I've been don't know what's going on. I've been stuck at 24,000 followers for 3 years stuck at 24,000 followers for 3 years and every time I post a piece of content and every time I post a piece of content I lose followers. I say you are the I lose followers. I say you are the founder. You have to start telling founder. You have to start telling stories, your own stories and get people stories, your own stories and get people to actually care about your work. So she to actually care about your work. So she made content like this. made content like this. &gt;&gt; If you start here when you're drawing &gt;&gt; If you start here when you're drawing your brows in, that is the very first your brows in, that is the very first mistake you're making. [music] Hi, my mistake you're making. [music] Hi, my name is Michelle. I am a permanent name is Michelle. I am a permanent makeup artist of 10 years and I makeup artist of 10 years and I specialize in brows. If you [music] do specialize in brows. If you [music] do this and you don't care what I think, by this and you don't care what I think, by all means, keep on scrolling. Girl, you all means, keep on scrolling. Girl, you do you. As a permanent makeup artist and do you. As a permanent makeup artist and someone that [music] draws people's someone that [music] draws people's brows in day in and day out, I always brows in day in and day out, I always make sure I never start drawing brows in make sure I never start drawing brows in in the beginning. What I've grown to in the beginning. What I've grown to notice when I [music] start drawing my notice when I [music] start drawing my brows in, I tend to have the heaviest brows in, I tend to have the heaviest hand and then I end up gradually getting hand and then I end up gradually getting lighter and lighter. If you are starting lighter and lighter. If you are starting in the beginning with a heavy hand, the in the beginning with a heavy hand, the darkest darkest &gt;&gt; Okay, Michelle, get to the point. It's &gt;&gt; Okay, Michelle, get to the point. It's important because you never want the important because you never want the front of your brow to be the focal front of your brow to be the focal point. And if that's the darkest part, point. And if that's the darkest part, that will be the first thing people will that will be the first thing people will notice when looking at your face. Now, notice when looking at your face. Now, of course, I'm going to give you a of course, I'm going to give you a better solution. Whenever you start better solution. Whenever you start drawing your brows in, you always want drawing your brows in, you always want to make sure you start at the bottom of to make sure you start at the bottom of the art. the art. &gt;&gt; So, look at this. So, the problem is &gt;&gt; So, look at this. So, the problem is that she clearly demonstrates a common that she clearly demonstrates a common mistake that people make. She shares her mistake that people make. She shares her experience and the method that she used experience and the method that she used to get a better result and the final to get a better result and the final result is actually the same as the bad result is actually the same as the bad and the good. The result, the payoff and the good. The result, the payoff remains the same, but now there's a remains the same, but now there's a reason to care because the prom pursuit reason to care because the prom pursuit is also there. So now people trust her is also there. So now people trust her over other buticians. It's not as if over other buticians. It's not as if there aren't other buticians out there, there aren't other buticians out there, but people care about her. There's but people care about her. There's another step that you can take the way another step that you can take the way the Michelle has done here and it's by the Michelle has done here and it's by actually supplementing those stories actually supplementing those stories with more personal stories but with more personal stories but intentionally. So all these business intentionally. So all these business owners, I get it. You're like, why the owners, I get it. You're like, why the heck would somebody care about me? Why heck would somebody care about me? Why would It's about being smart about the would It's about being smart about the stories that you tell. So Michelle has stories that you tell. So Michelle has mostly an Asian clientele. So what is mostly an Asian clientele. So what is she doing? She's trying to think about she doing? She's trying to think about what are some commonalities between me what are some commonalities between me and them. What are some things that I and them. What are some things that I could potentially share? But I still could potentially share? But I still want to talk about my business. I still want to talk about my business. I still have to know that people are actually have to know that people are actually coming in for my work. Let me go ahead coming in for my work. Let me go ahead and show you this as well. and show you this as well. &gt;&gt; Why do we love our parents the most but &gt;&gt; Why do we love our parents the most but talk to them with the least patience? I talk to them with the least patience? I just got back from a trip to China with just got back from a trip to China with my parents and aunts. [music] And it was my parents and aunts. [music] And it was our very first trip internationally as a our very first trip internationally as a family together. And I love them. But by family together. And I love them. But by day three, [music] I was running on day three, [music] I was running on fumes. They'd asked me the same fumes. They'd asked me the same questions five times in a row. What time questions five times in a row. What time are we leaving? What time are we are we leaving? What time are we leaving? Michelle, what time are we leaving? Michelle, what time are we [music] leaving? They were picky about [music] leaving? They were picky about where we ate. This one's too oily. This where we ate. This one's too oily. This place looks dirty. Every single place looks dirty. Every single restaurant came with a review I didn't restaurant came with a review I didn't ask [music] for. And I catch myself ask [music] for. And I catch myself responding short, sighing, giving them responding short, sighing, giving them that tone. And the tone I'd never give a that tone. And the tone I'd never give a client, never even with a friend. client, never even with a friend. &gt;&gt; Never a tone that I would give to my &gt;&gt; Never a tone that I would give to my client. She's it trickling this in. You client. She's it trickling this in. You see how smart this actually is? She's see how smart this actually is? She's building connection with the right building connection with the right audience, right? She knows who her audience, right? She knows who her target avatar is. And she then went from target avatar is. And she then went from 24,000 followers, losing followers every 24,000 followers, losing followers every time she posted to 62,000 followers with time she posted to 62,000 followers with more clients than she knows what to do more clients than she knows what to do with. this is hered with. this is hered &gt;&gt; posting about myself. I was like, "Oh, &gt;&gt; posting about myself. I was like, "Oh, nobody cares. Nobody cares about what I nobody cares. Nobody cares about what I have to do. They just want to know my have to do. They just want to know my services." Uh, as a matter of fact, it services." Uh, as a matter of fact, it did the opposite. I started posting did the opposite. I started posting about myself. I started finding a about myself. I started finding a community that were aligned with my community that were aligned with my values and how I grew up and and I found values and how I grew up and and I found people that actually cared about what I people that actually cared about what I had to say and what I was interested in. had to say and what I was interested in. It was insane. And as a matter of fact, It was insane. And as a matter of fact, in return, my business got busier, which in return, my business got busier, which is so crazy to me because I'm not even is so crazy to me because I'm not even talking about beauty sometimes. So, talking about beauty sometimes. So, yeah. yeah. &gt;&gt; So, now we've seen it with a service &gt;&gt; So, now we've seen it with a service provider, what is good to do. Now, let's provider, what is good to do. Now, let's talk about physical product. Are you Are talk about physical product. Are you Are you a jewelry designer? Are you somebody you a jewelry designer? Are you somebody that sells a book? Are you somebody that that sells a book? Are you somebody that sells a haird dryer? Any physical sells a haird dryer? Any physical product sellers out there? Check this product sellers out there? Check this out. I bet you know what product photo out. I bet you know what product photo shoots are. This is what you guys are shoots are. This is what you guys are trying to win with. Yes, it looks gorgeous, but it's never going to win. You can search up jewelry going to win. You can search up jewelry and there will have be 300 other jewelry and there will have be 300 other jewelry companies that have the exact same type companies that have the exact same type of photos as you do, probably paying the of photos as you do, probably paying the exact same agencies. There's no problem. exact same agencies. There's no problem. There is no pursuit. There is no payoff. There is no pursuit. There is no payoff. It doesn't stand out in a crowded feed. It doesn't stand out in a crowded feed. But this one, this one definitely does. But this one, this one definitely does. This is what she's doing with a client. This is what she's doing with a client. By the way, By the way, &gt;&gt; this is a small earring. &gt;&gt; this is a small earring. And now watch the difference. And now watch the difference. Like your face is completely different. Like your face is completely different. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Look at this part. Her face is uplifted &gt;&gt; Look at this part. Her face is uplifted and this is more puffy. and this is more puffy. &gt;&gt; This is not like earring scale for you. &gt;&gt; This is not like earring scale for you. For your face, for your face features. For your face, for your face features. &gt;&gt; 8.7 million views. She's not a great &gt;&gt; 8.7 million views. She's not a great editor. It's not like this is a fancy editor. It's not like this is a fancy edit. It's cuz she knows how to tell now edit. It's cuz she knows how to tell now stories through her content. Problem, stories through her content. Problem, pursuit, and payoff. And ultimately what pursuit, and payoff. And ultimately what has turned into trust has actually has turned into trust has actually turned into multiple successful launches turned into multiple successful launches as well since. So Valyria had 10 as well since. So Valyria had 10 different Instagram accounts, couldn't different Instagram accounts, couldn't grow a single one before for the last 10 grow a single one before for the last 10 years. She started doing this. All of a years. She started doing this. All of a sudden she's starting to grow. She's sudden she's starting to grow. She's like, June, what's next? What do I do like, June, what's next? What do I do next? And I'm like, if you really want next? And I'm like, if you really want my opinion, I would encourage you to my opinion, I would encourage you to tell your personal story. But we have to tell your personal story. But we have to be smart here. We have to start be smart here. We have to start integrating about confidence, what Julia integrating about confidence, what Julia has made you feel like. We had to has made you feel like. We had to showcase products in the actual thing, showcase products in the actual thing, but we have to make you the focal point. but we have to make you the focal point. People are going to buy into people. So, People are going to buy into people. So, she started making content like this. she started making content like this. [music] [snorts] &gt;&gt; Hold your breath and count &gt;&gt; Hold your breath and count to 10. [music] Feel the earth move. And then [music] [music] hear my heart hear my heart again. again. Oh, this [music] is the end. &gt;&gt; Think about this insecurities. Why is she talking about that? Why? Because she talking about that? Why? Because she's trying to get her jewelry she's trying to get her jewelry customers actually to think, "Oh, she's customers actually to think, "Oh, she's just like me." But how has she turned just like me." But how has she turned into a more confident person? Let's into a more confident person? Let's watch. we [music] You see the jewelry? You see what you're not understanding is that you're not not understanding is that you're not selling jewelry. You are selling selling jewelry. You are selling confidence. You're selling security. confidence. You're selling security. You're selling freedom. You're selling You're selling freedom. You're selling empowerment. And ultimately, her empowerment. And ultimately, her content, her storytelling content has content, her storytelling content has allowed her to go from never having a allowed her to go from never having a single account reach multiple thousands single account reach multiple thousands of followers to having 121,000 followers of followers to having 121,000 followers to selling out multiple launches and to selling out multiple launches and having 14.5 million views on a single having 14.5 million views on a single post alone. This is the power of post alone. This is the power of storytelling. Coaches, coaches, hear me storytelling. Coaches, coaches, hear me out. You guys suck at this the most. out. You guys suck at this the most. You're doing the same thing as everyone You're doing the same thing as everyone else. You're teaching the exact same else. You're teaching the exact same things like everyone else. And you're things like everyone else. And you're like, "How come I'm not growing? Why like, "How come I'm not growing? Why would they listen to you? Why? Even if would they listen to you? Why? Even if they do follow you, there's a reason why they do follow you, there's a reason why they're unfollowing you. It's because they're unfollowing you. It's because you're making content that looks like you're making content that looks like this." What is up, guys? I'm at [music] this." What is up, guys? I'm at [music] this beautiful cable machine. I don't this beautiful cable machine. I don't know if any of you guys have seen this know if any of you guys have seen this before, but this is honestly my new before, but this is honestly my new favorite machine for cable later. I'm favorite machine for cable later. I'm going to show you how it works. So, going to show you how it works. So, [music] we've got it set up around knee [music] we've got it set up around knee height, maybe around a little bit height, maybe around a little bit underneath the hips. We don't [music] underneath the hips. We don't [music] have any attachments on, but there's have any attachments on, but there's it's dual, so like we can we can pull it's dual, so like we can we can pull both of them. All of my students come in both of them. All of my students come in here. The first two folks were my here. The first two folks were my student. This is another student of student. This is another student of mine. If you're joining the storytelling mine. If you're joining the storytelling content challenge and your content looks content challenge and your content looks like in the bad, you're about to turn like in the bad, you're about to turn into the good. And this is the stuff into the good. And this is the stuff that we teach. Check this out. Think that we teach. Check this out. Think about the storytelling that has evolved about the storytelling that has evolved here and why somebody would actually here and why somebody would actually care. Think about the problem, pursuit, care. Think about the problem, pursuit, and payoff. and payoff. &gt;&gt; My chest is by far my biggest &gt;&gt; My chest is by far my biggest insecurity. [music] You see, 4 years insecurity. [music] You see, 4 years ago, the only reason I started going to ago, the only reason I started going to the gym was because I was super insecure the gym was because I was super insecure of [music] my sunken chest. And of [music] my sunken chest. And honestly, I thought that doing a lot of honestly, I thought that doing a lot of bench press was going to fix that. But bench press was going to fix that. But the truth is, I trained chest for years the truth is, I trained chest for years before they started to actually grow. before they started to actually grow. So, if your chest is something that you So, if your chest is something that you want to change, too, here are three. want to change, too, here are three. Right? Even even if I don't play the Right? Even even if I don't play the whole thing, it's like 100 times more whole thing, it's like 100 times more engaging. Right? Even if I don't even engaging. Right? Even if I don't even finish the video, you're like, "Oh, I finish the video, you're like, "Oh, I actually have a reason to care." This is actually have a reason to care." This is the difference between a coach that the difference between a coach that makes $10,000$12,000 and a coach that's makes $10,000$12,000 and a coach that's continuously able to scale because continuously able to scale because you're going to continuously grow their you're going to continuously grow their audience. If you're a coach that feels audience. If you're a coach that feels salesy, like you're losing followers, salesy, like you're losing followers, that you're stuck at a few thousand that you're stuck at a few thousand followers, you have to try storytelling followers, you have to try storytelling content. You see, he has done this. And content. You see, he has done this. And what did he do? He actually supplemented what did he do? He actually supplemented it with now a different type of it with now a different type of story-led content, origin content, story-led content, origin content, content that actually showcases why content that actually showcases why you've started the business in the first you've started the business in the first place. This is what founderled place. This is what founderled storytelling content looks like that storytelling content looks like that you're going to learn within the you're going to learn within the storytelling content challenge, too. storytelling content challenge, too. &gt;&gt; Two months ago, I dropped out of my &gt;&gt; Two months ago, I dropped out of my final year of law school to become a final year of law school to become a glorified unemployed gym bro. Okay, not glorified unemployed gym bro. Okay, not entirely true, but let me explain. See, entirely true, but let me explain. See, growing up, I was the jack of all trades growing up, I was the jack of all trades kid. Pretty good at most things, kid. Pretty good at most things, excellent at none. I did well in school, excellent at none. I did well in school, played every single sport, even dabbled played every single sport, even dabbled in music, drama, public speaking, hell, in music, drama, public speaking, hell, even magic. But nothing ever clicked. No even magic. But nothing ever clicked. No spark, no passion. And like every other spark, no passion. And like every other regular kid, I thought the goal was regular kid, I thought the goal was simple. finish uni, make my parents simple. finish uni, make my parents proud, get a stable job. But somewhere proud, get a stable job. But somewhere along the way, I found fitness. What along the way, I found fitness. What started as gym [music] clips and thirst started as gym [music] clips and thirst traps turned into something real. And traps turned into something real. And and what you think right now is like, and what you think right now is like, oh, a guy that's so good at editing, a oh, a guy that's so good at editing, a guy that of course has the charm and guy that of course has the charm and charisma to do it, had the exact same charisma to do it, had the exact same fears as you. He was insecure as much as fears as you. He was insecure as much as you are, right? He was thinking about, you are, right? He was thinking about, there's no way I could do this. There's there's no way I could do this. There's no way I could do this on my phone. Why no way I could do this on my phone. Why would anyone care about my story as a would anyone care about my story as a trainer? Guess what? He started doing trainer? Guess what? He started doing that. He grew his audience 25,000 more that. He grew his audience 25,000 more followers and grew his high ticket followers and grew his high ticket coaching program too. People do not buy coaching program too. People do not buy your product first. Listen to me very your product first. Listen to me very carefully. People buy into people. They carefully. People buy into people. They buy into you first. Every story that buy into you first. Every story that sells has the exact same shape. What sells has the exact same shape. What problem? Pursuit payoff is the way that problem? Pursuit payoff is the way that you actually make storytelling content you actually make storytelling content that sells. I'm just going to teach you that sells. I'm just going to teach you now why that actually is the case. You now why that actually is the case. You see, the part that you're missing right see, the part that you're missing right now is the pursuit isn't just your now is the pursuit isn't just your method. It doesn't make for just a good method. It doesn't make for just a good story. It actually becomes your offer. story. It actually becomes your offer. It becomes your intellectual property. It becomes your intellectual property. It is thing that you package and sell in It is thing that you package and sell in a challenge. The way that I'm selling in a challenge. The way that I'm selling in a challenge, the way that you could sell a challenge, the way that you could sell in any type of physical product, in any in any type of physical product, in any way that you can sell a service, you can way that you can sell a service, you can actually sell with your pursuit. The actually sell with your pursuit. The pursuit is the method. And I'm going to pursuit is the method. And I'm going to break down exactly what that means. Any break down exactly what that means. Any trainers in here? Just an example for trainers in here? Just an example for you. Maybe a problem that you have you. Maybe a problem that you have actually come across is that you actually come across is that you couldn't stick to a routine. So, you couldn't stick to a routine. So, you actually decided to make it easier for actually decided to make it easier for you and you did a home workout system you and you did a home workout system that worked for you. Then great. Then that worked for you. Then great. Then you're going to show the payoff and you're going to show the payoff and maybe you started seeing huge maybe you started seeing huge improvements in your training. Then you improvements in your training. Then you can actually package the pursuit into a can actually package the pursuit into a 30-day at home workout program. What? 30-day at home workout program. What? How's that possible? Well, the problem How's that possible? Well, the problem makes it relevant to somebody. Somebody makes it relevant to somebody. Somebody sees themselves in you. Then they see sees themselves in you. Then they see your method and they actually see that your method and they actually see that it works for them. Of course, they're it works for them. Of course, they're going to want to know more. This is how going to want to know more. This is how you can sell something. How about a you can sell something. How about a wedding photographer? While the problem wedding photographer? While the problem might be that you're spending 40 plus might be that you're spending 40 plus hours editing every wedding and you were hours editing every wedding and you were burning out, the pursuit is that you burning out, the pursuit is that you built a streamlined editing workflow built a streamlined editing workflow plus client communication templates and plus client communication templates and the payoff is that you saved 70% of your the payoff is that you saved 70% of your time. What you can sell something called time. What you can sell something called shoot and scale. This could be a course shoot and scale. This could be a course that you sell to other photographers. that you sell to other photographers. The pursuit is the offer. The pursuit is The pursuit is the offer. The pursuit is your method that people have already your method that people have already bought into. You just now have to put a bought into. You just now have to put a call to action to your contact. Maybe a call to action to your contact. Maybe a skincare brand owner. The problem could skincare brand owner. The problem could be you struggled with acne and you be you struggled with acne and you couldn't find any products that work. couldn't find any products that work. Your pursuit is that you started Your pursuit is that you started handmixing your own treatments using handmixing your own treatments using specific ingredient ratios. The payoff specific ingredient ratios. The payoff is that you cleared up your acne and now is that you cleared up your acne and now you have glowing skin. Wo, you now have you have glowing skin. Wo, you now have your own signature skinincare product. your own signature skinincare product. This is how every one of those hundred This is how every one of those hundred million dollar companies have started. million dollar companies have started. This is how my challenge in 48 hours This is how my challenge in 48 hours from a weight list an email made a from a weight list an email made a million dollars. It's through million dollars. It's through storytelling. That method becomes your storytelling. That method becomes your intellectual property. The thing that intellectual property. The thing that you package and offer. Your problem made you package and offer. Your problem made somebody care. Your payoff showed that somebody care. Your payoff showed that it would work for them. The pursuit is it would work for them. The pursuit is now the method you sell. That is the now the method you sell. That is the point of the problem pursuit payoff. point of the problem pursuit payoff. It's not just an engaging story. It is It's not just an engaging story. It is literally how you sell. And that is why literally how you sell. And that is why the three piece are so important that the three piece are so important that you actually learn. Now, I'm going to you actually learn. Now, I'm going to show you this physically with my show you this physically with my storytelling content challenge. The storytelling content challenge. The storytelling content challenge literally storytelling content challenge literally how it made a million dollars in 48 how it made a million dollars in 48 hours has been done through the thing hours has been done through the thing that I'm literally telling you right that I'm literally telling you right now. 12 months ago, I had no idea what now. 12 months ago, I had no idea what the heck a storytelling content the heck a storytelling content challenge would have been. I have no challenge would have been. I have no idea. I had I had no thought of that in idea. I had I had no thought of that in my brain. I didn't start there at all. I my brain. I didn't start there at all. I didn't think like, oh, I'm going to be a didn't think like, oh, I'm going to be a successful business owner, make a successful business owner, make a million dollars in 48 hours. I didn't million dollars in 48 hours. I didn't think of it like that. I thought of my think of it like that. I thought of my problem, though. I was like, shoot, I problem, though. I was like, shoot, I need to grow more. I need to grow an need to grow more. I need to grow an audience so that people care. And so, I audience so that people care. And so, I started telling my story. The pursuit started telling my story. The pursuit was I literally started sharing my story was I literally started sharing my story online. And naturally, I started coming online. And naturally, I started coming up with ways that I was doing it, right? up with ways that I was doing it, right? So, the three Ps, the storytelling So, the three Ps, the storytelling wheel, I'll be fully honest, they didn't wheel, I'll be fully honest, they didn't even have names yet. Like, it was just even have names yet. Like, it was just how I was doing it. But naturally, the how I was doing it. But naturally, the payoff is that it was successful, right? payoff is that it was successful, right? I actually like the stories that I told. I actually like the stories that I told. And if you ever join my storytelling And if you ever join my storytelling content challenge, you're going to learn content challenge, you're going to learn how to tell stories in a way that feels how to tell stories in a way that feels aligned to you, that you're going to aligned to you, that you're going to feel very confident about. So, the feel very confident about. So, the payoff then is like making other people payoff then is like making other people say, "Holy cow, June, this is like say, "Holy cow, June, this is like really good." And I'm like what you like really good." And I'm like what you like you that was just for me. So I started you that was just for me. So I started thinking I'm like okay so if other thinking I'm like okay so if other people are wanting this huh and they're people are wanting this huh and they're asking me now questions about how to asking me now questions about how to effectively do it. Ah there is something effectively do it. Ah there is something I could actually start labeling these I could actually start labeling these into frameworks packaging them as my own into frameworks packaging them as my own IP and start developing videos and IP and start developing videos and content around storytelling. And you've content around storytelling. And you've probably seen this piece of content. You probably seen this piece of content. You may have seen my stories up to this may have seen my stories up to this point in time. Then I actually teach point in time. Then I actually teach these frameworks to my team because they these frameworks to my team because they had no idea what those were. That's the had no idea what those were. That's the storytelling framework. My first storytelling framework. My first product, the guide to academic success, product, the guide to academic success, the one that I told you I made a million the one that I told you I made a million dollars with while being a student, did dollars with while being a student, did the exact same thing. What did I do? the exact same thing. What did I do? Problem? I started showing content about Problem? I started showing content about the fact that I sucked at studying. the fact that I sucked at studying. Pursuit. I started talking about how I Pursuit. I started talking about how I was getting better at studying with was getting better at studying with evidence-based learning strategies. The evidence-based learning strategies. The payoff was that I actually graduated. payoff was that I actually graduated. The pursuit is the thing that I packaged The pursuit is the thing that I packaged into calling the guide to academic into calling the guide to academic success. A PDF. A PDF made a million success. A PDF. A PDF made a million dollars. A PDF. I was able to use that dollars. A PDF. I was able to use that money to actually pay off my dad's money to actually pay off my dad's $225,000 of lifetime debt. And I also $225,000 of lifetime debt. And I also paid off my entire student loan debt. paid off my entire student loan debt. How about this? Let's look at creator How about this? Let's look at creator college, right? How to create a college college, right? How to create a college even ignite into something like it is even ignite into something like it is today. Problem. I wanted to grow on today. Problem. I wanted to grow on social media. I was able to do so. And social media. I was able to do so. And guess what I did? I started to actually guess what I did? I started to actually talk about, oh, it was this method. It talk about, oh, it was this method. It was this framework and I did it and was this framework and I did it and people cared about it. Then the payoff, people cared about it. Then the payoff, it was serious growth and success. And it was serious growth and success. And people started asking how. Then created people started asking how. Then created college became this thing that now I'm college became this thing that now I'm actually like look at this. You are not actually like look at this. You are not a fitness creator. You are not a travel a fitness creator. You are not a travel creator. You're not a fashion creator. creator. You're not a fashion creator. You're not a beauty creator. You're not You're not a beauty creator. You're not a tech creator. You're not a food a tech creator. You're not a food creator. You, my friends, are the niche. creator. You, my friends, are the niche. I truly believe you do not need a niche. I truly believe you do not need a niche. I truly believe I truly believe you are the niche. Now, we've done this you are the niche. Now, we've done this in New York, and I hope that you guys in New York, and I hope that you guys can beat the New York room. There's a can beat the New York room. There's a thousand more of you. I'm going to ask thousand more of you. I'm going to ask if you guys if you guys &gt;&gt; This is actually unbelievable. This was &gt;&gt; This is actually unbelievable. This was like a dream come true for me. And I had like a dream come true for me. And I had the entire room say something. Look how the entire room say something. Look how loud this actually sounds. It's loud this actually sounds. It's unbelievable. unbelievable. &gt;&gt; I am the niche. Those four words at the &gt;&gt; I am the niche. Those four words at the top of your lungs. Three, top of your lungs. Three, two, one. &gt;&gt; How cool is that? But it's the impact, guys. Like, I have now been able to take guys. Like, I have now been able to take care of my dad. You know how the most care of my dad. You know how the most successful, the moment that I get chills successful, the moment that I get chills with every single time is not the moment with every single time is not the moment that I bought a car. I still drive the that I bought a car. I still drive the same 2015 Jeep. I'm not someone that has same 2015 Jeep. I'm not someone that has a fancy life. This this watch that I a fancy life. This this watch that I have on my wrist was a graduation gift have on my wrist was a graduation gift to my brother that was like 145 bucks. to my brother that was like 145 bucks. These things don't give me much meaning, These things don't give me much meaning, but what gives me meaning was the but what gives me meaning was the ability to slide over $300,000 of a ability to slide over $300,000 of a check written to my dad over dinner and check written to my dad over dinner and seeing him cry and having him fall into seeing him cry and having him fall into my arms and having that moment with him my arms and having that moment with him has been everything. You know, the has been everything. You know, the amount of suffering I had seen, I had amount of suffering I had seen, I had seen things that I would never wish on seen things that I would never wish on my worst enemy. The things that I had to my worst enemy. The things that I had to see, the depression, the mental health, see, the depression, the mental health, the things that everyone was going the things that everyone was going through in my family. And at my age, as through in my family. And at my age, as the youngest kid, seeing all of that the youngest kid, seeing all of that destroy everyone within my family and destroy everyone within my family and having to know this and say, "No, it's having to know this and say, "No, it's going to be on me." Like, I'm going to going to be on me." Like, I'm going to do something about it. I'm going to do do something about it. I'm going to do why? No one's coming to save us. It is why? No one's coming to save us. It is on me. So, guess what? I did it. And now on me. So, guess what? I did it. And now today, through storytelling, I get a today, through storytelling, I get a chance to give back to even people that chance to give back to even people that I couldn't have ever met before. I'm I couldn't have ever met before. I'm giving back to you right now. This is giving back to you right now. This is serious stuff. This is intimate stuff. serious stuff. This is intimate stuff. This is things that so personal to our This is things that so personal to our own respective goals. And I could not own respective goals. And I could not have ever ever dreamt of this moment. have ever ever dreamt of this moment. And that's why I'm so impassioned to be And that's why I'm so impassioned to be in front of you today and make sure that in front of you today and make sure that you guys become storytellers yourselves. you guys become storytellers yourselves. Every single time any product that I've Every single time any product that I've ever sold, the problem got attention. ever sold, the problem got attention. The payoff showed how it worked. And it The payoff showed how it worked. And it was the pursuit people actually paid was the pursuit people actually paid for. This pursuit becomes that offer. for. This pursuit becomes that offer. And you start to recognize, holy cow, And you start to recognize, holy cow, people actually even want to buy from people actually even want to buy from you before you even had a product yet. you before you even had a product yet. Check this out. If you don't have a Check this out. If you don't have a product yet, build an audience, tell product yet, build an audience, tell your story, and people start championing your story, and people start championing you. If you don't have a product yet, I you. If you don't have a product yet, I know I talked about service owners, know I talked about service owners, physical product sellers, coaches, physical product sellers, coaches, trainers, but if you don't have a trainers, but if you don't have a product yet, this is perfectly for you. product yet, this is perfectly for you. The storytelling content challenge is The storytelling content challenge is perfectly for you because you're going perfectly for you because you're going to build an audience the right way. If to build an audience the right way. If people champion you, you can sell people champion you, you can sell whatever you want and people will buy whatever you want and people will buy into that. Let me explain right now. You into that. Let me explain right now. You can just start with your life. You can can just start with your life. You can start about work. You can start about start about work. You can start about relationships. You can talk about relationships. You can talk about interests, experiences, learnings, interests, experiences, learnings, whatever it is that you want. Do the whatever it is that you want. Do the three Ps. Three Ps in every single one three Ps. Three Ps in every single one of your posts. You will grow 10,000 of your posts. You will grow 10,000 followers. But I'm not going to force followers. But I'm not going to force you to talk about specific topics. you to talk about specific topics. Actually want to explore with your life. Actually want to explore with your life. If you don't have a product yet, work, If you don't have a product yet, work, relationships, interests, experiences, relationships, interests, experiences, and learnings. But guess what happens and learnings. But guess what happens naturally? One of those things are going naturally? One of those things are going to really land. Your audience will love to really land. Your audience will love it, and you're going to love it. And it, and you're going to love it. And that pursuit becomes your offer. You're that pursuit becomes your offer. You're actually naturally falling into a actually naturally falling into a product while not sacrificing growth product while not sacrificing growth without overthinking like oh I need a without overthinking like oh I need a product before I start oh I need to I product before I start oh I need to I need to have this perfect no you just need to have this perfect no you just start by telling your story and start by telling your story and naturally people gravitate towards naturally people gravitate towards things and that's the thing that you're things and that's the thing that you're going to ultimately sell that step four going to ultimately sell that step four becomes an offer like you can make a lot becomes an offer like you can make a lot of money through storytelling and that of money through storytelling and that pursuit turns into a method and I want pursuit turns into a method and I want to be crystal clear it's not like right to be crystal clear it's not like right now you're going to be able to be like now you're going to be able to be like oh this is a thing in my life that's oh this is a thing in my life that's going to make a lot of money that's not going to make a lot of money that's not how it works everything that you live how it works everything that you live feels boring to to you because you're feels boring to to you because you're just like, "Oh, I just done that. Like, just like, "Oh, I just done that. Like, I didn't even think about it. It's just I didn't even think about it. It's just how I operate it." In hindsight, like I how I operate it." In hindsight, like I am doing right now with the storytelling am doing right now with the storytelling content challenge. I had no idea that content challenge. I had no idea that that would be interesting. And you're that would be interesting. And you're like, "But dude, of course you did. like, "But dude, of course you did. Like, you've done this before. Like, Like, you've done this before. Like, storytelling of course would be storytelling of course would be attractive." I had no idea. You know how attractive." I had no idea. You know how many other people, by the way, have many other people, by the way, have tried to sell storytelling things that tried to sell storytelling things that haven't worked? It's because of the haven't worked? It's because of the content. It's because the audience, the content. It's because the audience, the the way that I've been able to make the way that I've been able to make people champion this product launch. In people champion this product launch. In hindsight, it actually looks like a hindsight, it actually looks like a method. So, what I want you to think method. So, what I want you to think about is the following. Ask yourself about is the following. Ask yourself these three questions. What did I do these three questions. What did I do repeatedly that I stopped noticing as a repeatedly that I stopped noticing as a thing? Here are three prompts. Think thing? Here are three prompts. Think about the stuff that feels too obvious about the stuff that feels too obvious or too small to mention. For me, the or too small to mention. For me, the problem pursuit payoff is like so problem pursuit payoff is like so obvious because I've been doing it for 6 obvious because I've been doing it for 6 years. I don't even think about it. years. I don't even think about it. Naturally, I'm like, "Oh, wait. People Naturally, I'm like, "Oh, wait. People don't realize it's a real thing." The don't realize it's a real thing." The pursuit is often being hidden in the pursuit is often being hidden in the boring repeated things that you're boring repeated things that you're doing. I didn't think testing doing. I didn't think testing evidence-based learning strategies was a evidence-based learning strategies was a product. It was just literally what I product. It was just literally what I did every day. Number two, ask yourself did every day. Number two, ask yourself this. What would I tell a friend to do this. What would I tell a friend to do step by step if they had my exact step by step if they had my exact problem? If I was just in a room, don't problem? If I was just in a room, don't think about making money. Don't think think about making money. Don't think about a dollar association. If a friend about a dollar association. If a friend came to you on a FaceTime call or in came to you on a FaceTime call or in person, how would you help them? If you person, how would you help them? If you could answer this in more than one could answer this in more than one sentence, like it's not something super sentence, like it's not something super easy. If you could actually explain a easy. If you could actually explain a process, ah, you have a pursuit there process, ah, you have a pursuit there that you can sell. Vague answers sound that you can sell. Vague answers sound like advice. Just be consistent. But like advice. Just be consistent. But specific answers sound like a method. specific answers sound like a method. Like, I posted for this long this way. Like, I posted for this long this way. So, guess what? A 21-day content So, guess what? A 21-day content challenge is a method for 21 days. I'm challenge is a method for 21 days. I'm breaking it back week by week. There's a breaking it back week by week. There's a reason why the challenge is instructed reason why the challenge is instructed that way and it's going to break your that way and it's going to break your brains. The third prompt that you can brains. The third prompt that you can ask yourself is what did I get wrong ask yourself is what did I get wrong first, but before I actually got it first, but before I actually got it right. So, what are the common mistakes right. So, what are the common mistakes that I made that I didn't even think that I made that I didn't even think were mistakes that I could package? Oh were mistakes that I could package? Oh my gosh, those are problems. Now, I my gosh, those are problems. Now, I could actually put that in the first P could actually put that in the first P of the problem pursuit payoff. Oh my of the problem pursuit payoff. Oh my gosh, I actually can tell like 45 gosh, I actually can tell like 45 stories cuz I had like 45 different stories cuz I had like 45 different mistakes. Here's the best way of putting mistakes. Here's the best way of putting it. Every person right now that is it. Every person right now that is making the most amount of money online making the most amount of money online are not the biggest experts. They're not are not the biggest experts. They're not the smartest people online. They're not the smartest people online. They're not the best expertise. They're not. They're the best expertise. They're not. They're people that know how to tell good people that know how to tell good stories. They're the ones that feel stories. They're the ones that feel really human. They're the 35-year-old really human. They're the 35-year-old other moms. They're like the 47year-old other moms. They're like the 47year-old teachers. They're like the 53y old teachers. They're like the 53y old people that have lived experience. people that have lived experience. They're the 70 years old people that They're the 70 years old people that never actually touched content before. never actually touched content before. Why are they making millions of dollars? Why are they making millions of dollars? And these people that have trained for And these people that have trained for this, that have been studying for 55 this, that have been studying for 55 years for this, why are they not making years for this, why are they not making a single dime? It's because it's not a single dime? It's because it's not enough to be smart. It's more important enough to be smart. It's more important to be human. How else are you going to to be human. How else are you going to do it? Like, what is your other option? do it? Like, what is your other option? Be a failure forever. Like, what what Be a failure forever. Like, what what like what how other way could you like what how other way could you actually get in front of people? Pay for actually get in front of people? Pay for ads? Like, how? Like, think about what ads? Like, how? Like, think about what is here. I'll show you. I'll show you is here. I'll show you. I'll show you right now. Travis is in the storytelling right now. Travis is in the storytelling content challenge. And I've worked with content challenge. And I've worked with him before. You might know who Travis is him before. You might know who Travis is because he's now like a very very very because he's now like a very very very very big deal. This guy Travis 912,000 very big deal. This guy Travis 912,000 followers the guy that sells music that followers the guy that sells music that goes on tours that sells out festivals goes on tours that sells out festivals that is with one of the most popular DJs that is with one of the most popular DJs right now. This guy Travis, guess what? right now. This guy Travis, guess what? He does my program. He's doing the He does my program. He's doing the story. You know this guy, the guy that story. You know this guy, the guy that you think, oh, as a musician there's no you think, oh, as a musician there's no way I could sell. How else are you going way I could sell. How else are you going to sell? There's no other way to sell. to sell? There's no other way to sell. Oh, why is he talking about things about Oh, why is he talking about things about what he's learning? Why is he talking what he's learning? Why is he talking about sobriety? Why is he talking about about sobriety? Why is he talking about sobriety? He's a musician. You shouldn't sobriety? He's a musician. You shouldn't be talking about Sabbri. Why is he doing be talking about Sabbri. Why is he doing this? Ah, why does he have 912,000 this? Ah, why does he have 912,000 followers for the exact same reason? followers for the exact same reason? It's storytelling. Let's look at It's storytelling. Let's look at something completely different. You're something completely different. You're like, there's no way. It only works for like, there's no way. It only works for There's no way. I I I'm just can't do There's no way. I I I'm just can't do it. I'm not I'm not cool enough. Let's it. I'm not I'm not cool enough. Let's look at Terrence. Terrence is a music look at Terrence. Terrence is a music production coach. You know, he was production coach. You know, he was posting for a long time and had hadn't posting for a long time and had hadn't grown a single person in his audience. grown a single person in his audience. Look what he does. I want to just even Look what he does. I want to just even I'll just show you his content right I'll just show you his content right from the get-go. Let's look at it. Okay, from the get-go. Let's look at it. Okay, let's look at what he does for his let's look at what he does for his content. Oh, okay. Hi, I'm Terrence. I content. Oh, okay. Hi, I'm Terrence. I help produce. Okay, I'm a producer, help produce. Okay, I'm a producer, songwriter, and artist. Here's my sto songwriter, and artist. Here's my sto Oh, story. He told a story. No way. Not Oh, story. He told a story. No way. Not as a music producer. Oh, wait. Why is he as a music producer. Oh, wait. Why is he talking about his marriage? That's talking about his marriage? That's weird. As a musician, why is he talking weird. As a musician, why is he talking about Why is he showing his younger about Why is he showing his younger self? Why is he talking about Oh. Oh. self? Why is he talking about Oh. Oh. Why is he talking about year 2016? Why Why is he talking about year 2016? Why is he Oh, I get it. Both of them are is he Oh, I get it. Both of them are making a lot of money doing music. A lot making a lot of money doing music. A lot of them are doing stuff that you could of them are doing stuff that you could have never imagined because they're have never imagined because they're doing it through storytelling. I spent doing it through storytelling. I spent $200,000 I spent $242,000 $200,000 I spent $242,000 on my college education. $242,000 on my on my college education. $242,000 on my college education. And not a single one college education. And not a single one of you guys would have blinked if I told of you guys would have blinked if I told you I spent $242,000 on biomedical you I spent $242,000 on biomedical engineering degrees. I make a hundred engineering degrees. I make a hundred times more money through the thing that times more money through the thing that I'm teaching you right now than I did I'm teaching you right now than I did with my $240,000 degree. And no one with my $240,000 degree. And no one blinked an eye on that. The reason why blinked an eye on that. The reason why you're blinking an eye on this is you're blinking an eye on this is because you don't get it. Like you don't because you don't get it. Like you don't understand that this is a possibility understand that this is a possibility for you right now. I am about to show for you right now. I am about to show you something called you something called angles. And I don't mean like how good angles. And I don't mean like how good you can look on camera like those you can look on camera like those angles. I'm talking about how can you angles. I'm talking about how can you actually give new life to the same story actually give new life to the same story over and over and over again. So how is over and over and over again. So how is this possible? Let me explain. this possible? Let me explain. Let's say you're starting a new hobby. Let's say you're starting a new hobby. It's like but Julian, I can't talk about It's like but Julian, I can't talk about the same hobby like 12 times. I I'm the same hobby like 12 times. I I'm going to show the most boring thing that going to show the most boring thing that you can possibly think of. And I want to you can possibly think of. And I want to show you how you can turn this into show you how you can turn this into multiple different stories. There's some multiple different stories. There's some questions that you can ask yourself. You questions that you can ask yourself. You can ask yourself questions like this. You're starting to be introduced to phase one of angles. How can you turn phase one of angles. How can you turn one story into multiple pieces of one story into multiple pieces of content? You introduce it into different content? You introduce it into different ways. Let me explain. So, if we think ways. Let me explain. So, if we think about mentally, how can how can starting about mentally, how can how can starting a new hobby be an interesting story? a new hobby be an interesting story? Let's think. Let's think. You know the whole like left brain, You know the whole like left brain, right brain thing. Maybe it's helping right brain thing. Maybe it's helping you train a new part of your brain. you train a new part of your brain. Let's talk about spiritually. How is Let's talk about spiritually. How is starting a new hobby helping you starting a new hobby helping you spiritually. spiritually. Then we have physically. Then we have physically. Okay. So I am trying to break down to Okay. So I am trying to break down to you how one event can actually turn into you how one event can actually turn into multiple stories. And there's another multiple stories. And there's another now permutation that adds to this. Each now permutation that adds to this. Each one of these will actually have its own. one of these will actually have its own. What? You're telling me that this one What? You're telling me that this one moment can have its own respective moment can have its own respective physical problem pursuit payoff? Of physical problem pursuit payoff? Of course it can. course it can. Pursuit. I don't know what a hobby is, Pursuit. I don't know what a hobby is, but I'm thinking about like I've decided but I'm thinking about like I've decided to join the wreck league softball. I to join the wreck league softball. I don't know if that's only a US thing, don't know if that's only a US thing, but you get the point. Then payoff being but you get the point. Then payoff being like like cool. I used to be at my desk all the cool. I used to be at my desk all the time and as I get older, I'm feeling time and as I get older, I'm feeling more stiff. Pursuit. I've decided to more stiff. Pursuit. I've decided to join the Wreck League softball thing. So join the Wreck League softball thing. So that's the pursuit payoff is I now feel that's the pursuit payoff is I now feel like I have something to show up for and like I have something to show up for and do physically. Great. Whoa. You have one do physically. Great. Whoa. You have one story. [gasps] But you're telling me story. [gasps] But you're telling me that every single one of these actually that every single one of these actually have each problem pursuits and payoff. have each problem pursuits and payoff. Yes, I am. Jessica, so let's say Yes, I am. Jessica, so let's say spiritually um problem is I feel unal spiritually um problem is I feel unal alive. I feel bored. I feel like life alive. I feel bored. I feel like life sucks. Pursuit is I am finally going to sucks. Pursuit is I am finally going to put my own joy and adventure first. I put my own joy and adventure first. I don't know what's another hobby. I don't know what's another hobby. I decided to pick up on cloud watching. Is decided to pick up on cloud watching. Is that is that a hobby? Payoff is I like that is that a hobby? Payoff is I like clouds and I find that my younger self clouds and I find that my younger self who used to stare into the sky with who used to stare into the sky with dreams has something to look forward to. dreams has something to look forward to. All of a sudden, one event can have 1 2 All of a sudden, one event can have 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 12 acts. And every single 4 5 6 7 8 9 12 acts. And every single one of these can actually be own one of these can actually be own problems. This payoff can actually turn problems. This payoff can actually turn into a problem. Maybe the problem here into a problem. Maybe the problem here is I actually got injured. Pursuit is is I actually got injured. Pursuit is and the payoff could be and the payoff could be maybe the payoff is sad this time. And maybe the payoff is sad this time. And you say, I feel like I'm restarting you say, I feel like I'm restarting again. That could be a payoff. So you're again. That could be a payoff. So you're telling me that if we zoom out, we're telling me that if we zoom out, we're going to have one another another story, going to have one another another story, another story, another story. And you're another story, another story. And you're like, June, how are you so brilliant? like, June, how are you so brilliant? How are you doing this? This isn't How are you doing this? This isn't something that I've invented. You, my something that I've invented. You, my friends, have always have always have friends, have always have always have always have always always had a story. always have always always had a story. You just never knew how to have the eye You just never knew how to have the eye for it. You're going to realize now that for it. You're going to realize now that you have an eye for it, which means this you have an eye for it, which means this stores into your memory. You make better stores into your memory. You make better content. And this, my friends, is a content. And this, my friends, is a cycle. The reason why I can do this cycle. The reason why I can do this whole thing and say that you have whole thing and say that you have endless stories around you is because endless stories around you is because our human brains work that way. So, if our human brains work that way. So, if you think about eyes, how do you have an you think about eyes, how do you have an eye for something? There's something eye for something? There's something called the red car theory. If you ever called the red car theory. If you ever bought a red car, you're going to go and bought a red car, you're going to go and look at the street and realize there's look at the street and realize there's so many red cars on the streets. It's so many red cars on the streets. It's not because all of a sudden Toyota not because all of a sudden Toyota started selling more red cars. It's started selling more red cars. It's because you have relevance. You built an because you have relevance. You built an eye for it. This is the real thing that eye for it. This is the real thing that I'm trying to teach you. Having an eye I'm trying to teach you. Having an eye for the things around you. And that's a for the things around you. And that's a skill that's going to make you a better skill that's going to make you a better speaker. Do you suck at making friends? speaker. Do you suck at making friends? It's going to get you new friends. Do It's going to get you new friends. Do you suck at uh presentations at work? you suck at uh presentations at work? It's going to make you a better It's going to make you a better presenter because you don't realize, but presenter because you don't realize, but storytelling is a skill that goes beyond storytelling is a skill that goes beyond just content alone. I am training the just content alone. I am training the skill for it, but I have to package this skill for it, but I have to package this from a content perspective because then from a content perspective because then you'll understand it. Albert Einstein you'll understand it. Albert Einstein has said this quote that the definition has said this quote that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different and over again and expecting a different result. How long is it going to take you result. How long is it going to take you to realize that you've been insane this to realize that you've been insane this whole time? You're 44 years old. You're whole time? You're 44 years old. You're 44. When is when are you going to wake 44. When is when are you going to wake up to the reality that you have never up to the reality that you have never put yourself first? When are you going put yourself first? When are you going to wake up to the reality that maybe you to wake up to the reality that maybe you don't like the job that you have? When don't like the job that you have? When are you going to wake up to the reality are you going to wake up to the reality that you lost your spark a long time that you lost your spark a long time ago? It's not because you don't have it ago? It's not because you don't have it in you. It's because it's been hidden. in you. It's because it's been hidden. It's because somewhere along the way, It's because somewhere along the way, someone has told you to stop talking someone has told you to stop talking when you had an idea. It's because when you had an idea. It's because someone along the way has told you that someone along the way has told you that you weren't good enough. Maybe it was an you weren't good enough. Maybe it was an ex that broke up with you and cheated on ex that broke up with you and cheated on you for some other reason, was flirting you for some other reason, was flirting with you, someone else person. It broke with you, someone else person. It broke your heart. Maybe it was a bully. Maybe your heart. Maybe it was a bully. Maybe it was a teacher that you hated. Maybe it was a teacher that you hated. Maybe it was that bus driver that was weirdly it was that bus driver that was weirdly mean to you. But maybe it was that mean to you. But maybe it was that friend that actually didn't turn out to friend that actually didn't turn out to be a friend and backstabbed you. be a friend and backstabbed you. Something somewhere along the way, Something somewhere along the way, you've allowed someone else's you've allowed someone else's interpretation of your story run your interpretation of your story run your own. You've allowed someone else's voice own. You've allowed someone else's voice actually turn into your own. The person actually turn into your own. The person that has told you that you weren't good that has told you that you weren't good enough, somehow it's gone into your enough, somehow it's gone into your brain and out of your own lips. And all brain and out of your own lips. And all of a sudden, that has become your of a sudden, that has become your reality. Way you could wake up to the reality. Way you could wake up to the reality that you have been insane this reality that you have been insane this whole time. Not because you don't have whole time. Not because you don't have it in you, but because you've allowed it in you, but because you've allowed other people to run that story. Tell it other people to run that story. Tell it yourself. Find power in it. Tell it. Own yourself. Find power in it. Tell it. Own it. Look at this. Dr. Prime, one of the it. Look at this. Dr. Prime, one of the most popular quotes of all time. The most popular quotes of all time. The most common regret that people have on most common regret that people have on their deathbed is that they lived their their deathbed is that they lived their life according to the desires of others, life according to the desires of others, not how they wanted to. You really think not how they wanted to. You really think that when you're on your deathbed, that when you're on your deathbed, you're going to regret posting content you're going to regret posting content and trying to show up for your own and trying to show up for your own dreams? You really think that that's the dreams? You really think that that's the thing that you're going to regret? Or do thing that you're going to regret? Or do you think that you're going to regret you think that you're going to regret never trying in the first place? You never trying in the first place? You know, the reason why I feel so know, the reason why I feel so impassioned to talk about this is now impassioned to talk about this is now that I've quote unquote made it, I'll be that I've quote unquote made it, I'll be fully honest with you, all the people at fully honest with you, all the people at this level suck. They suck. A lot of this level suck. They suck. A lot of them have no idea what they're talking them have no idea what they're talking about. You know, a lot of the times I'm about. You know, a lot of the times I'm on these podcasts and now that I have a on these podcasts and now that I have a podcast, we bring on guests and I'm podcast, we bring on guests and I'm like, they have no idea what they're like, they have no idea what they're talking about. They suck. These people talking about. They suck. These people that you look up to, these people that that you look up to, these people that are having these successes, you look at are having these successes, you look at them, you're like, there's no way I them, you're like, there's no way I could achieve it. If I could show you could achieve it. If I could show you how they were in real life, you would how they were in real life, you would say, "If they can do it, I can too. I say, "If they can do it, I can too. I guarantee it." You see, the thing that guarantee it." You see, the thing that you're going to regret is that when you you're going to regret is that when you grow older, you're going to realize grow older, you're going to realize every outcome is the same for all of us. every outcome is the same for all of us. We're gone. And that's when everything's We're gone. And that's when everything's going to hit you. It will. You're gonna going to hit you. It will. You're gonna be like, "I let Sally and Joe or I let be like, "I let Sally and Joe or I let my dad or I let my cousin or my teacher my dad or I let my cousin or my teacher or I let my manager dictate exactly how or I let my manager dictate exactly how I felt about myself dictate everything I felt about myself dictate everything that I did for my life." That's what that I did for my life." That's what you're going to actually require. The you're going to actually require. The average age of a millionaire in the US, average age of a millionaire in the US, which is earlier than most, is 61 years which is earlier than most, is 61 years old. You're looking at these old. You're looking at these 19-year-old, 18-year-old successful 19-year-old, 18-year-old successful millionaires, and you're like, I can't millionaires, and you're like, I can't do this internet thing. It's not too do this internet thing. It's not too late. It's never too late. The only time late. It's never too late. The only time you can ever lose in life is if you give you can ever lose in life is if you give up. Is it okay if I'm honest with you in up. Is it okay if I'm honest with you in this moment? You know, I'm telling you this moment? You know, I'm telling you to talk about your stories. I might as to talk about your stories. I might as well tell you mine. I can't tell you the well tell you mine. I can't tell you the amount of moments that I've wanted to amount of moments that I've wanted to quit. I can't describe it to you in quit. I can't describe it to you in words. Like, if you saw the things that words. Like, if you saw the things that I saw growing up, there's no way. You I saw growing up, there's no way. You know, I remember when I was about a year know, I remember when I was about a year and a half into college and I was never and a half into college and I was never naturally smart. I was biomedical naturally smart. I was biomedical engineering student and basically I was engineering student and basically I was having a really rough time in school. My having a really rough time in school. My dad got sick and so of course because he dad got sick and so of course because he doesn't speak English, I went back home doesn't speak English, I went back home and I took him to the hospital and all and I took him to the hospital and all things there were fine. But I was laying things there were fine. But I was laying there in my childhood bed looking at me there in my childhood bed looking at me in this mirror that I have and I was in this mirror that I have and I was like, "Holy cow, I'm a loser." Like, I like, "Holy cow, I'm a loser." Like, I have nothing to show for the work that have nothing to show for the work that I've poured into this. I've worked so I've poured into this. I've worked so hard since I was 16 years old. I didn't hard since I was 16 years old. I didn't go to parties. I didn't drink. I didn't go to parties. I didn't drink. I didn't hook up with people. I didn't I didn't hook up with people. I didn't I didn't do any of that stuff. And I was like, do any of that stuff. And I was like, I've been doing this for 8 to nine I've been doing this for 8 to nine years. Every one of my friends in high years. Every one of my friends in high school was like, "This kid is a loser." school was like, "This kid is a loser." Friday nights Friday nights while Friday nights Friday nights while everyone else was going out, I was going everyone else was going out, I was going to the gym. I was trying to take care of to the gym. I was trying to take care of myself cuz I knew that I had to do myself cuz I knew that I had to do things to actually get ahead in life. things to actually get ahead in life. And still nine years later, I found And still nine years later, I found myself in that bedroom. I'm like, man, myself in that bedroom. I'm like, man, maybe they were right. Maybe they were maybe they were right. Maybe they were right. I looked at it and I was like, right. I looked at it and I was like, "My dad's still struggling. I still "My dad's still struggling. I still don't have a relationship with my mom. don't have a relationship with my mom. It's not like my siblings are going to It's not like my siblings are going to help us get out of this. Man, maybe they help us get out of this. Man, maybe they were right." Interestingly enough, so were right." Interestingly enough, so basically I lived in a basement and my basically I lived in a basement and my dad was waking up. He always wakes up at dad was waking up. He always wakes up at like 3:30 a.m. to go to work. And he had like 3:30 a.m. to go to work. And he had actually at that moment in time, he was actually at that moment in time, he was making a cup of coffee like he always making a cup of coffee like he always does for me before he goes to work. and does for me before he goes to work. and he would drop off that cup of coffee. he would drop off that cup of coffee. But interestingly, that day he actually But interestingly, that day he actually dropped it and he didn't crash. It was dropped it and he didn't crash. It was one of those mugs, just made a loud one of those mugs, just made a loud noise and it like weirdly woke me up in noise and it like weirdly woke me up in that moment. All of a sudden, I I that moment. All of a sudden, I I stopped getting into my own lost thread stopped getting into my own lost thread of thoughts and that thing broke me out of thoughts and that thing broke me out of it for a second and reminded me of of it for a second and reminded me of why I do what I do. You see, the amount why I do what I do. You see, the amount of respect that I have for every single of respect that I have for every single one of you, it's not because you're one of you, it's not because you're already successful. It's that you're already successful. It's that you're willing to work hard even in the midst willing to work hard even in the midst of the struggle. Anyone can work hard of the struggle. Anyone can work hard when they're winning. it is the time in when they're winning. it is the time in which they're not winning that which they're not winning that [clears throat] I have so much respect [clears throat] I have so much respect for you. And so when it broke me out of for you. And so when it broke me out of that reality, I was like, who the heck that reality, I was like, who the heck am I to believe in someone else's lie am I to believe in someone else's lie about me? I should continue doing what I about me? I should continue doing what I do. In that moment, about 3 and 1/2 do. In that moment, about 3 and 1/2 weeks later, I started making content weeks later, I started making content that actually grew for the first time. that actually grew for the first time. About 6 and 1/2 months later, I actually About 6 and 1/2 months later, I actually started to do well in school. About a started to do well in school. About a year and a half later, I got my first year and a half later, I got my first internship called West Pharmaceutical internship called West Pharmaceutical Services. For someone that was Services. For someone that was struggling with their academics, that struggling with their academics, that was probably a big leap. Then I think was probably a big leap. Then I think about the next experience. Then I got about the next experience. Then I got one at Glasco Smith Klein, one of the one at Glasco Smith Klein, one of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the world. I started to do better in school. world. I started to do better in school. I started making better content. But the I started making better content. But the honest truth is that it still wasn't the honest truth is that it still wasn't the made it moment that you think it was. It made it moment that you think it was. It wasn't. Every single day, I still had wasn't. Every single day, I still had the insecurity. I still had the doubts. the insecurity. I still had the doubts. I thought that maybe people were right. I thought that maybe people were right. But the one thing that I wasn't willing But the one thing that I wasn't willing to let go of is to tell my story. to let go of is to tell my story. Because the honest truth is that I Because the honest truth is that I didn't want to be on my deathbed and didn't want to be on my deathbed and wondering if I could if I could have wondering if I could if I could have made it. You see, our greatest fear is made it. You see, our greatest fear is not that we're inadequate. my greatest not that we're inadequate. my greatest fears that were powerful beyond measure. fears that were powerful beyond measure. In that moment, I knew that I was In that moment, I knew that I was powerful. I just didn't know if I wanted powerful. I just didn't know if I wanted to try harder. I didn't know if I wanted to try harder. I didn't know if I wanted to try harder because if I failed, then to try harder because if I failed, then I would be faced with all the realities I would be faced with all the realities that I wasn't good enough. But the one that I wasn't good enough. But the one thing that for some reason I couldn't thing that for some reason I couldn't let go of was to share my story. You let go of was to share my story. You fast forward another year or so and my fast forward another year or so and my audience is growing. I'm getting nearer audience is growing. I'm getting nearer to graduating and still there isn't to graduating and still there isn't nothing to show for it. It's not like I nothing to show for it. It's not like I have more money in the bank account, have more money in the bank account, better grades, so it doesn't show better grades, so it doesn't show anything in terms of my career. But anything in terms of my career. But something that I built over that long something that I built over that long period of time without winning for about period of time without winning for about 14 years was this idea that you will 14 years was this idea that you will work hard no matter what it is. And it work hard no matter what it is. And it shows you a completely different level shows you a completely different level of resilience. It does. And it's like of resilience. It does. And it's like I'm going to [clears throat] win. Like I I'm going to [clears throat] win. Like I will. The only way that I can lose is if will. The only way that I can lose is if I quit. Then you fast forward and about I quit. Then you fast forward and about the last year before I graduate I had a the last year before I graduate I had a 5-year program. In that fifth year I 5-year program. In that fifth year I grew to a million followers. In that grew to a million followers. In that same year I actually got that internship same year I actually got that internship with Novartis and started a digital with Novartis and started a digital microscope. I built a digital atomic microscope. I built a digital atomic microscope while also starting my first microscope while also starting my first business. And that's the business that business. And that's the business that did a million dollars while I was still did a million dollars while I was still there. That's what everyone thinks is an there. That's what everyone thinks is an overnight success. You have to be insane overnight success. You have to be insane to put the amount of work that I do. You to put the amount of work that I do. You have to be insane. What other person have to be insane. What other person What other person I've made my millions What other person I've made my millions of dollars. Money is obviously not the of dollars. Money is obviously not the thing that's driving me. Obviously, what thing that's driving me. Obviously, what other 25year-old kid would make multiple other 25year-old kid would make multiple millions of dollars and say, "I'm not millions of dollars and say, "I'm not near done yet." Who would Who else would near done yet." Who would Who else would do this? Who else would do this? I went do this? Who else would do this? I went from a 30-hour live master class. from a 30-hour live master class. Immediately the next day, I flew to Can Immediately the next day, I flew to Can to speak at Can Line. It was for 4 days. to speak at Can Line. It was for 4 days. Immediately after that, barely any sleep Immediately after that, barely any sleep while still preparing while we're going while still preparing while we're going through it. I went straight to London. through it. I went straight to London. From that, I hosted the London event. From that, I hosted the London event. The first day that I was there, The first day that I was there, everything went wrong. We had to fix it. everything went wrong. We had to fix it. We had to put out fires. The next day We had to put out fires. The next day that I was there, we were hosting an that I was there, we were hosting an event for 1,300 people. The next day, I event for 1,300 people. The next day, I hosted a live inerson mastermind. Did it hosted a live inerson mastermind. Did it for two days in a row, a full day. Then for two days in a row, a full day. Then immediately what I do after that I did immediately what I do after that I did three days of podcasts where I had to do three days of podcasts where I had to do all the research for them, prep for all the research for them, prep for them, set up the studios for them. I did them, set up the studios for them. I did that barely any sleep for that entire 3 that barely any sleep for that entire 3 and a half week period. Then I went to and a half week period. Then I went to France and that's where the storytelling France and that's where the storytelling content challenge happened. From the content challenge happened. From the storytelling content challenge, I felt a storytelling content challenge, I felt a light in my soul that I haven't felt in light in my soul that I haven't felt in a long period of time because everything a long period of time because everything feels so aligned to me in this moment. feels so aligned to me in this moment. Everything that I suffered with that Everything that I suffered with that moment in time where I heard that jug of moment in time where I heard that jug of my dad's coffee dropping onto the my dad's coffee dropping onto the ground, it's like every little bit of ground, it's like every little bit of that fear and struggle and exhaustion that fear and struggle and exhaustion has come to this moment in time where has come to this moment in time where I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, this is it. This I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, this is it. This is it." If I can find the way to is it." If I can find the way to actually serve you and have you find actually serve you and have you find your voice. This is story time. If I can your voice. This is story time. If I can help somebody feel more confident, more help somebody feel more confident, more secure in their experience, then man, secure in their experience, then man, was this worth it. Storytelling is in was this worth it. Storytelling is in all of us. And if I can somehow make you all of us. And if I can somehow make you feel and believe in that, then I think feel and believe in that, then I think that I'm doing my job. &gt;&gt; You have no idea how terrified I am in this moment. You have no idea. Right this moment. You have no idea. Right here, I'm like shaking. I want you to here, I'm like shaking. I want you to feel this. feel this. [music] 6 months ago, my grandma passed away unexpectedly. 8 months before she unexpectedly. 8 months before she passed, dementia was quickly erasing her passed, dementia was quickly erasing her memories. But one question always memories. But one question always remained, and it might be a very Korean remained, and it might be a very Korean thing to do, a very Korean grandma thing thing to do, a very Korean grandma thing to do. How's your work going? to do. How's your work going? For 40 years, she gave her whole life to For 40 years, she gave her whole life to being a nurse in the ER. And it's why I being a nurse in the ER. And it's why I actually studied biomedical engineering actually studied biomedical engineering in the first place. By the way, I had no in the first place. By the way, I had no business studying. That is way out of my business studying. That is way out of my league. And I did it. So, how the heck league. And I did it. So, how the heck am I going to tell the person that am I going to tell the person that inspired [snorts] me to do all of this inspired [snorts] me to do all of this while she's going through what she's while she's going through what she's going through, that I'd quit and started going through, that I'd quit and started making videos instead. Probably not a making videos instead. Probably not a very good thing to tell a Korean very good thing to tell a Korean grandma, especially at her age. So, I grandma, especially at her age. So, I smiled and I said, "Hey, it's going smiled and I said, "Hey, it's going great, Grandma. It's going all right." great, Grandma. It's going all right." Three months before she passed, there's Three months before she passed, there's one video, especially of me in New York one video, especially of me in New York City. We were hosting our event and she City. We were hosting our event and she saw a video of me like this, like this. saw a video of me like this, like this. And she was like, "Oh, my grandson." She And she was like, "Oh, my grandson." She didn't care about what I did for work didn't care about what I did for work the whole time. It's the only things the whole time. It's the only things that she could remember. But in that that she could remember. But in that moment, she was proud in that moment. In moment, she was proud in that moment. In that moment, she was proud. She's proud that moment, she was proud. She's proud of my heart. She never cared about a of my heart. She never cared about a title. She only cared about God's title. She only cared about God's calling for me. And she believed, even calling for me. And she believed, even at her age, it was for me to help people at her age, it was for me to help people tell their stories. She knew I had a tell their stories. She knew I had a gift. She's like, "He's going to do gift. She's like, "He's going to do something about it." In February, I got something about it." In February, I got a phone call at 3:00 a.m. telling me a phone call at 3:00 a.m. telling me that she was gone. By the way, this is that she was gone. By the way, this is probably the worst time, if there's ever probably the worst time, if there's ever a good time to have a family's death. a good time to have a family's death. But we were right before preparing for But we were right before preparing for an event. It's like 3 and 1/2 days an event. It's like 3 and 1/2 days before. I got a phone call at 3:00 a.m. before. I got a phone call at 3:00 a.m. So, what did I do? Of course, I So, what did I do? Of course, I immediately flew out to Philadelphia the immediately flew out to Philadelphia the next day. I took care of the things I next day. I took care of the things I need to take care of. I paid for all the need to take care of. I paid for all the things I need to pay for to make sure things I need to pay for to make sure that at least we could honor her when we that at least we could honor her when we did. By the way, that two days later, I did. By the way, that two days later, I still carried on with the event. Then I still carried on with the event. Then I flew out, did the whole things that I flew out, did the whole things that I was supposed to do. You see, she spent was supposed to do. You see, she spent her whole life advocating for people, her whole life advocating for people, and I feel as though I'm carrying her and I feel as though I'm carrying her legacy forward. 6 months later, I went legacy forward. 6 months later, I went on a terror. I've been on that terror. on a terror. I've been on that terror. I'm writing the coattales of it, and I I'm writing the coattales of it, and I still feel like I got a lot of it left. still feel like I got a lot of it left. I'm on a mission to help as many people I'm on a mission to help as many people as possible tear their stories, big or as possible tear their stories, big or small. I think I have somehow built this small. I think I have somehow built this gift of mine, which feels like a mirror. gift of mine, which feels like a mirror. I don't think that I'm uber talented, I don't think that I'm uber talented, but I think I am really good at but I think I am really good at reflecting who you are. In a way that reflecting who you are. In a way that feels kind, but in a way that stings a feels kind, but in a way that stings a little bit, just enough to keep you little bit, just enough to keep you coming back for more. You see, for some coming back for more. You see, for some odd reason, I could be in the UK, barely odd reason, I could be in the UK, barely have an audience, sold out. They all have an audience, sold out. They all come again, I don't think it has come again, I don't think it has anything to do with me. Look at them. Do anything to do with me. Look at them. Do you see a single person that's looking you see a single person that's looking away? Every single person is looking. I away? Every single person is looking. I think it's just because I'm really good think it's just because I'm really good at reflecting the opportunity. I think at reflecting the opportunity. I think I'm really good at reflecting the lie I'm really good at reflecting the lie that you've been telling yourself over that you've been telling yourself over and over again that you don't have a and over again that you don't have a story. I'm going to end with one final story. I'm going to end with one final message. I believe in you. And I want message. I believe in you. And I want you to share that belief even if you you to share that belief even if you can't hold it for yourself. Just take my can't hold it for yourself. Just take my belief in you because again, I am so belief in you because again, I am so sorry that someone along the way or sorry that someone along the way or something has told you that you weren't something has told you that you weren't good enough, that you couldn't do it. good enough, that you couldn't do it. I'm so sorry, even more so that you've I'm so sorry, even more so that you've believed in it. Our greatest fears are believed in it. Our greatest fears are not that we're inadequate. Our greatest not that we're inadequate. Our greatest fears are that we're powerful beyond fears are that we're powerful beyond measure. We're not afraid that we don't measure. We're not afraid that we don't have the potential. We're afraid to act have the potential. We're afraid to act on it and fail and to be faced with the on it and fail and to be faced with the reality that we might not be as good as reality that we might not be as good as we think we are. You have a decision to we think we are. You have a decision to make because that feeling isn't going to make because that feeling isn't going to go away. With that being said, I love go away. With that being said, I love you guys so much. Thank you guys and you guys so much. Thank you guys and I'll see you
