Getting sales for my first digital products was hard. Like really hard. I was creating things I was passionate about. I was posting on social media and not a whole lot happened. Maybe a sale here and there, but not much else. And this was so frustrating because I saw other people succeeding and I couldn't figure out what I was doing wrong. It wasn't until I unlearned a few things and replaced them with few core principles that changed everything. And today I want to share with you the five biggest lessons that took me from struggling to get sales to building a multi-million dollar digital product business. The first lesson was the most painful and it was this. Nobody cared about my ideas. I used to think that you just have to follow your passion and then as long as you're passionate about that thing, then it's going to sell. You know, as long as you put it out there, as long as you're interested, as long as you do the thing, people are going to buy. But that's not really how it works. That's exactly what I used to do, and that's what a lot of other people do, too. you know, you get a really cool idea, you get excited, you spend months building it, and then you launch it, and then nothing happens. And it can make you feel like such a failure. So for me, the shift happened when I realized that it's not about following my passion as much as being a researcher. Effective digital products are not products that you just want to create because you want to create them. It's about researching what people actually want to buy because ultimately, you're selling to other people. You're not selling to yourself. So now before I even think about new product, I start with research. I will go into Reddit or I'll go into Facebook groups or I'll go into Amazon book reviews and read the comments. I look for exact words. That is the fastest and easiest way to get started. Number two, stop selling a product and started selling an outcome. So once I started solving real problems, I thought sales would be easy, but they still weren't all that easy. And that led to the second lesson. People don't buy what the product is, they buy what it does for them. It's the shift from features to benefits. How I used to describe my products when I first started, and this is something you might be doing too, is you're describing your products based on all the features, all the things that are included. This is a 50-page PDF guide. It's a 20 video course. There's 3 hours of content, comprehensive notion template, and you know, that's fine, but it's not what's going to carry your product. It's not why people buy. People don't want to do the mental gymnastics of figuring out why should they care. And the reason why is because most people buy a destination. You have to paint a vivid picture of their life after they use their product. So specifically, if you're selling, say, a 50-page guide to email marketing, you could change that to something like get your first 1,000 email subscribers. Or instead of a notion meal planning template, you can turn that into never stress about what to eat for dinner again and always leave with the result. It's not that you never talk about features because, you know, there's a time and place for that and we I do also mention features still, but if you're only leading with features, that's where it gets tricky. I review sales pages, offers all the time, and that's the number one thing that I see. Now, a huge part of selling the outcome is making sure your entire sales process from the first click to the first download is seamless. Any friction kills the sale, and this is where having a rockolid checkout system is non-negotiable. And I've actually used Thrive Kart myself to process somewhere north of $2 million in sales because it's built for conversion. It makes it super simple to create a high converting sales page. And if you're serious about this, you need a professional setup. But the professional setup thankfully doesn't cost as much as you think and it's not that complicated to set up. So I'll link what I'll use below in a description. So go ahead and check it out cuz it's definitely worth it. But let's get to lesson three because this one is about money. I stopped guessing my price and started pricing the value. Now, pricing is one of those things that people often get tripped up by. What is the right price to charge for your product? It's not about picking a number out of thin air. It's about being intentional. And what price you choose for your offer communicates quite a bit about the offer as well. You don't want to undercharge. You don't want to overcharge either. So, when it comes to undercharging, you know, you might think that if you undercharge, you charge like $7, $5, $10, you're going to get way more people. And sometimes that's the case, but sometimes people might not take you as seriously, especially if your product is like solving a $10,000 problem. They are going to think that it's too good to be true. They're going to think there's something something's off about that. So that pricing doesn't make sense. On the flip side, overcharging is also a problem. just because you put a lot of effort into building something and you, you know, spent months building it and it's this amazing thing and you're just like, "Wow, but I I was in front of the camera for so many hours. Like, it's so valuable, so I'm going to charge thousands of dollars." When the value of the product isn't worth thousands of dollars, that's not the right way to charge either, right? So, your pricing needs to be based on what is the actual value of the outcome, not your effort. So, if your product solves someone 10 hours of work and their time is worth $50 an hour, that's $500 value. Charging $19 is a freaking steal. But if you charged $1,000, that's kind of where it gets a little bit iffy. So, you need to be realistic. You need to get out of the lens of like, I did this. I put all this effort into it. I put, you know, all this energy into it and I don't want to charge less or, you know, I want to charge way more or what have you. Like, you need to make sure that you're thinking about pricing from a strategic perspective. In general, if you're just getting started, I always recommend charging a little bit lower, but making sure they know that it's like a beta version or it's the first version of the product to get some people in the door. Lesson four, I stopped seeking perfection and started seeking data. Now, I don't know about you, but I used to be such a perfectionist. I would think that everything I created had to be perfect because it represents me. So, I would, you know, create the product. I would spend weeks tweaking the design, rewriting paragraphs, adding just this one more thing, and then this other one little thing. And therefore, the launch date kept getting pushed back and pushed back and pushed back. When this happens, you're in this cycle of like it's never good enough. It's never going to be perfect. So, you launch either never or you launch so late that you've lost all momentum. And I see this happening all the time. I see people coming to me with like the coolest ideas, but then they're so secretive about it. They're so like perfectionist about it that they don't launch it until the like the trend is already gone. People don't care about it anymore. So it makes it a lot harder for them to get the actual sale because they lost the momentum. The audience lost the momentum. So you get stuck in that endless loop of refinement and no real feedback and then who knows you could be even creating something that people don't even care about or you know it's changed over time. So you want to go from idea to go to market as quickly as possible because the market is the only source of truth. Your assumptions about what needs to be perfect are probably wrong. The fastest way to a great product is to launch a good product, good enough product, and then listen to your first customers and see what they say. That's what I do with every single product. So, you want to think about your products, especially the first version of your product as a minimum viable product. MVP. Your goal is to create the smallest possible version of your product that still solves the core problem. And that leads to the final and most important lesson of all. Lesson five, I stopped marketing to everyone and started building trust with a few. You can have the right product, the right marketing, and the right price, but if you have no trust, you have no sales. So, this is about going deep, not wide. And you might be seeing people online talking about everything under the sun. That's how people typically think about marketing. You, you know, people think that you need to have a huge audience, that you need to be everywhere, you need to be posting on every single platform, reaching everyone, speaking to a general audience, so that you're not excluding everyone. But when that happens, your message gets diluted. You're shouting into the void. No one's paying attention. And when you're talking about generalities, no one really listens cuz you're not specific to anyone. Trust is the currency of the internet. People buy from people they know, like, and trust. And it's better to have 1,000 true fans who hang on your every word than 10,000 casual followers who just don't care. So focus on providing immense value to a small, specific group of people. You're probably going to get less views, but the people that actually see your content are going to see you as an expert. They're going to feel like their questions are answered. They're going to feel connected to you. They're going to answer every question that these particular people have. You're going to show up consistently. You're going to build real relationships with people, and you give away 90% of your best stuff for free. The sales get to become a natural byproduct of the trust that you build. And people need to know that you know what you're talking about. Now, if you're struggling, it could be because you don't know what to actually sell. I've been there. And it's frustrating to wonder if the actual kind of product you're selling is even going to make sales. Which is why I made this video right here, showing you eight of the best digital products that can genuinely make you rich this year. So you don't have to guess and you can start applying what you learned in this video ASAP. I'll see you over there.