Copyrighted Material
‘This is a breakthrough book: Mother Reality makes sense in her own
way. She yields her secrets to practitioners, almost never to academics
– something psychologists, economists and non-skin in the game people,
no matter what they say, are functionally unable to grasp. And the book
is funny as hell: I smiled and laughed at every paragraph. Furthermore,
this is the first such treatise written by someone who had true contact
with reality via something called a P/L. And this is wonderfully applicable
to about everything in life, from how to announce airplane delays to how
to handle unsold opera tickets. Buy two copies of this book in case one
is stolen.’
Nassim Nicholas Taleb, scholar and former trader; author of the Incerto

‘Reading Alchemy was, as its title promised, the process of turning paper
and print into gold. Veins of wisdom regarding human functioning emerge
regularly and brilliantly from the pages. Don’t miss this book.’
Robert Cialdini, bestselling author of Influence, Yes!, The Small BIG and
Pre-suasion

‘Brilliant, Brilliant, Brilliant . . . wonderfully heretical, naughty and
funny . . . Uncommon sense on stilts.’
Jules Goddard, Fellow of the Centre for Management Development at
London Business School and co-author of Uncommon Sense, Common
Nonsense

‘Deeply original.’
Robert Trivers, evolutionary biologist and author of Deceit and Self-Deception

‘Buy this book for the footnotes alone . . . As a committed devotee of ration-
alism, who thinks there is not enough of it in this world, I rationally ought
to hate this book. Instead I loved it. It’s full of great insights.’
Matt Ridley, author of The Rational Optimist

‘Sutherland captivates in a narrative full of intellectual treats that explain
much of the behaviours in the world around us. This illogically logical read
is a must read for anyone who is in the people business!’
Dilip Soman, Canada Research Chair in Behavioural Science and Economics,
University of Toronto

‘Rory Sutherland is one of the all-time great raconteurs, polymaths, and
ad men. But this book shows his hidden depths. Within this fun, quirky,
hilarious page-turner, he develops a profound critique of technocratic
hubris and fetishised economics. Sutherland helps us rediscover the pro-
found wisdom behind everyday human reasoning, and invites us to explore
the magic that happens when we trust a bit less in our focus groups and
optimisation models, and trust a bit more in our creative eccentricity.’
Geoffrey Miller, evolutionary psychologist, author of The Mating Mind, Spent,
and What Women Want




                     Copyrighted Material
Copyrighted Material
ALCHEMY
The Magic of Original Thinking in a
World of Mind-Numbing Conformity



RORY SUTHERLAND




         Copyrighted Material
                        1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2

            WH Allen, an imprint of Ebury Publishing,
                   20 Vauxhall Bridge Road,
                       London SW1V 2SA

      WH Allen is part of the Penguin Random House group
         of companies whose addresses can be found
              at global.penguinrandomhouse.com




                Copyright © Rory Sutherland, 2019

   Rory Sutherland has asserted his right to be identified as the
      author of this Work in accordance with the Copyright,
                  Designs and Patents Act 1988

              First published by WH Allen in 2019
           This edition published by WH Allen in 2020

                       www.penguin.co.uk

         A CIP catalogue record for this book is available
                     from the British Library

                       ISBN 9780753556528

  Printed and bound in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, Elcograf S.p.A.

Penguin Random House is committed to a sustainable future for our
     business, our readers and our planet. This book is made
         from Forest Stewardship Council® certified paper.




                   Copyrighted Material
CONTENTS
  FOREWORD: CHALLENGING COCA-COLA          vii
  INTRODUCTION:
  CRACKING THE (HUMAN) CODE                  1

1: ON THE USES AND ABUSES OF REASON         49
2: AN ALCHEMIST’S TALE
      (OR WHY MAGIC REALLY STILL EXISTS)   133
3: SIGNALLING                              165
4: SUBCONSCIOUS HACKING:
      SIGNALLING TO OURSELVES              211
5: SATISFICING                             245
6: PSYCHOPHYSICS                           271
7: HOW TO BE AN ALCHEMIST                  317

  CONCLUSION:
  ON BEING A LITTLE LESS LOGICAL           343

  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS                         359
  ENDNOTES                                 361
  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS                    363
  INDEX                                    365




              Copyrighted Material
RORY’S RULES
OF ALCHEMY:
 1.   The opposite of a good idea can also be a good idea.
 2.   Don’t design for average.
 3.   It doesn’t pay to be logical if everyone else is being logical.
 4.   The nature of our attention affects the nature of our
      experience.
 5.   A flower is simply a weed with an advertising budget.
 6.   The problem with logic is that it kills off magic.
 7.   A good guess which stands up to observation is still science.
      So is a lucky accident.
 8.   Test counterintuitive things only because no one else will.
 9.   Solving problems using rationality is like playing golf with only
      one club.
10.   Dare to be trivial.
11.   If there were a logical answer, we would have found it.




                                      rory’s rules of alchemy       vi



                    Copyrighted Material
FOREWORD:
CHALLENGING
COCA-COLA
Imagine that you are sitting in the boardroom of a major global
drinks company, charged with producing a new product that will
rival the position of Coca-Cola as the world’s second most popular
cold non-alcoholic drink.*
   What do you say? How would you respond? Well, the first thing I
would say, unless I were in a particularly mischievous mood, is some-
thing like this: ‘We need to produce a drink that tastes nicer than
Coke, that costs less than Coke, and that comes in a really big bottle
so people get great value for money.’ What I’m fairly sure nobody
would say is this: ‘Hey, let’s try marketing a really expensive drink,
that comes in a tiny can . . . and that tastes kind of disgusting.’ Yet that
is exactly what one company did. And by doing so they launched a
soft drinks brand that would indeed go on to be a worthy rival to
Coca-Cola: that drink was Red Bull.
   When I say that Red Bull ‘tastes kind of disgusting’, this is not a
subjective opinion.† No, that was the opinion of a wide cross-section
of the public. Before Red Bull launched outside of Thailand, where
it had originated, it’s widely rumoured that the licensee approached



                *   After water.
                †   I drink rather a lot of the stuff myself.


                                                   rory sutherland       vii



                    Copyrighted Material
a research agency to see what the international consumer reaction
would be to the drink’s taste; the agency, a specialist in researching
the flavouring of carbonated drinks, had never seen a worse reaction
to any proposed new product.
   Normally in consumer trials of new drinks, unenthusiastic
respondents might phrase their dislike diffidently: ‘It’s not really
my thing’; ‘It’s slightly cloying’; ‘It’s more a drink for kids’ – that
kind of thing. In the case of Red Bull, the criticism was almost angry:
‘I wouldn’t drink this piss if you paid me to,’ was one refrain. And
yet no one can deny that the drink has been wildly successful – after
all, profits from the six billion cans sold annually are sufficient to
fund a Formula 1 team on the side.




                           foreword: challenging coca-cola         viii



                     Copyrighted Material
THE CASE FOR MAGIC
There is a simple premise to this book: that while the modern
world often turns its back on this kind of illogic, it is at times
uniquely powerful. Alongside the inarguably valuable products
of science and logic, there are also hundreds of seemingly irra-
tional solutions to human problems just waiting to be discovered,
if only we dare to abandon standard-issue, naïve logic in the
search for answers.
   Unfortunately, because reductionist logic has proved so reliable
in the physical sciences, we now believe it must be applicable every-
where – even in the much messier field of human affairs. The
models that dominate all human decision-making today are duly
heavy on simplistic logic, and light on magic – a spreadsheet leaves
no room for miracles. But what if this approach is wrong? What if,
in our quest to recreate the certainty of the laws of physics, we are
now too eager to impose the same consistency and certainty in
fields where it has no place?
   Take work and holidays, for example. Some 68 per cent of
Americans would pay to have two weeks more holiday than the mea-
gre two weeks most enjoy at present – they would accept a 4 per
cent pay cut in return for double the amount of vacation time.
   But what if there were no cost whatsoever to increasing everyone’s
vacation allowance? What if we discovered that greater leisure time


                                             rory sutherland      ix



                  Copyrighted Material
would benefit the US economy, both in terms of money spent on
leisure goods and also in greater productivity? Perhaps people with
more vacation time might be prepared to work for longer in life,
rather than retiring to a Florida golf course as soon as it became
affordable? Or perhaps they might simply be better at their jobs if
they were reasonably rested and inspired by travel and leisure?
Besides, it is now plausible that, for many jobs, recent advances in
technology mean there is little difference in the contribution you
make to your workplace, whether you are in a cubicle in Boise, Idaho
or on a beach in Barbados.
   There is an abundance of supporting evidence for these magical
outcomes: the French are astonishingly productive on the rare occa-
sion they are not on holiday; the German economy is successful,
despite six weeks of annual leave being commonplace. But there is no
model of the world that allows for America to contemplate, let alone
trial, this possibly magical solution. In the left-brain, logical model of
the world, productivity is proportional to hours worked, and a doubling
of holiday time must lead to a corresponding 4 per cent fall in salary.
   The technocratic mind models the economy as though it were a
machine: if the machine is left idle for a greater amount of time,
then it must be less valuable. But the economy is not a machine – it
is a highly complex system. Machines don’t allow for magic, but
complex systems do.

  Engineering doesn’t allow for magic. Psychology does.

  In our addiction to naïve logic, we have created a magic-free world
of neat economic models, business case studies and narrow tech-
nological ideas, which together give us a wonderfully reassuring
sense of mastery over a complex world. Often these models are
useful, but sometimes they are inaccurate or misleading. And occa-
sionally they are highly dangerous.
  We should never forget that our need for logic and certainty
brings costs as well as benefits. The need to appear scientific in
our methodology may prevent us from considering other, less log-
ical and more magical solutions, which can be cheap, fast-acting


                            foreword: challenging coca-cola             x



                      Copyrighted Material
and effective. The mythical ‘butterfly effect’ does exist, but we don’t
spend enough time butterfly hunting. Here are some recent but-
terfly effect discoveries, from my own experience:

    1. A website adds a single extra option to its checkout
       procedure – and increases sales by $300m per year.
    2. An airline changes the way in which flights are presented –
       and sells £8m more of premium seating per year.
    3. A software company makes a seemingly
       inconsequential change to call-centre procedure –
       and retains business worth several million pounds.
    4. A publisher adds four trivial words to a call-centre
       script – and doubles the rate of conversion to sales.
    5. A fast-food outlet increases sales of a product by
       putting the price . . . up.

All these disproportionate successes were, to an economist, entirely
illogical. All of them worked. And all of them, apart from the first, were
produced by a division of my advertising agency, Ogilvy, which I
founded to look for counter-intuitive solutions to problems. We
discovered that problems almost always have a plethora of seemingly
irrational solutions waiting to be discovered, but that nobody is look-
ing for them; everyone is too preoccupied with logic to look anywhere
else. We also found, rather annoyingly, that the success of this approach
did not always guarantee repeat business; it is difficult for a company,
or indeed a government, to request a budget for the pursuit of such
magical solutions, because a business case has to look logical.
   It’s true that logic is usually the best way to succeed in an argument,
but if you want to succeed in life it is not necessarily all that useful;
entrepreneurs are disproportionately valuable precisely because they
are not confined to doing only those things that make sense to a
committee. Interestingly, the likes of Steve Jobs, James Dyson, Elon
Musk and Peter Thiel often seem certifiably bonkers; Henry Ford
famously despised accountants – the Ford Motor Company was never
audited while he had control of it.


                                                rory sutherland        xi



                    Copyrighted Material
   When you demand logic, you pay a hidden price: you destroy
magic. And the modern world, oversupplied as it is with economists,
technocrats, managers, analysts, spreadsheet-tweakers and algo-
rithm designers, is becoming a more and more difficult place to
practise magic – or even to experiment with it. In what follows, I
hope to remind everyone that magic should have a place in our
lives – it is never too late to discover your inner alchemist.




                          foreword: challenging coca-cola       xii



                    Copyrighted Material
INTRODUCTION:
CRACKING THE
(HUMAN) CODE
I am writing this book with two screens in front of me, one of which
is displaying a series of recent results from a test that my colleagues
have just performed to try to increase the effectiveness of charity
fundraising.
   Once a year, volunteers for our client charity drop printed enve-
lopes through millions of doors, and return a few weeks later to
collect people’s donations. This year the envelopes contained a
hurricane relief appeal, but some of these envelopes were randomly
different from the rest: 100,000 of them announced that the enve-
lopes had been delivered by volunteers; 100,000 encouraged people
to complete a form which meant their donation would be boosted
by a 25 per cent tax rebate; 100,000 were in better-quality envelopes;
and 100,000 were in portrait format (so the flap of the envelope was
along the short side rather than the long one).
   If you were an economist you would look at the results of this
experiment and immediately conclude that people are completely
insane. Logically, the only one of these changes that should affect
whether people give is the one that reminds you that, for every £1
you donate, the government will give a further 25p. The other three
tests are seemingly irrelevant; the paper quality, the orientation of
the envelope and the fact that it was hand-delivered by a volunteer
add nothing to the rational reasons to donate.


                                              rory sutherland        1



                   Copyrighted Material
  However, the results tell a different story. The ‘rational’ envelope
in fact reduces donations by over 30 per cent compared to the plain
control, while the other three tests increase donations by over 10
per cent. The higher-quality paper also attracts a significantly higher
number of more significant donations of £100 or more. I hope that,
by the time you finish reading this book, you might better understand
why these crazy-sounding results may make a strange kind of sense.

  The human mind does not run on logic any more than a horse
  runs on petrol.

   What are the possible explanations for these results? Well, perhaps
it feels more natural to put notes or cheques in an envelope with
the flap on a shorter edge. Putting a cheque for £100 into a thick
envelope feels more agreeable than putting it into one made of cheap
paper. And a volunteer’s effort of hand-delivering the envelope may
prompt the urge to reciprocate: we appreciate the effort they have
made. Perhaps the mention of a 25 per cent ‘bonus’ on their donation
reduces the amount that people feel they need to give? Stranger
still, it also reduced the proportion of people who gave anything at
all; I’ll be honest with you – I have no idea why this should be.
   Here’s the thing. To a logical person, there would have been no
point in testing three of these variables, but they are the three that
actually work. This is an important metaphor for the contents of
this book: if we allow the world to be run by logical people, we will
only discover logical things. But in real life, most things aren’t log-
ical – they are psycho-logical.
   There are often two reasons behind people’s behaviour: the osten-
sibly logical reason, and the real reason. I have worked in advertising
and marketing for the last 30 years. I tell people I do it to make money,
to build brands and to solve business problems; none of these are
things I dislike, but, truthfully, I do it because I am nosy.
   Modern consumerism is the best-funded social science experi-
ment in the world, the Galapagos Islands of human weirdness. More
important still, an ad agency is one of the few remaining safe spaces
for weird or eccentric people in the worlds of business and


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code             2



                      Copyrighted Material
government. In ad agencies, mercifully, maverick opinion is still
broadly encouraged or at least tolerated. You can ask stupid ques-
tions or make silly suggestions – and still get promoted. This
freedom is much more valuable than we realise, because to reach
intelligent answers, you often need to ask really dumb questions.
   In most corporate settings, if you suddenly asked ‘Why do people
clean their teeth?’ you would be looked at as a lunatic, and quite
possibly unsafe. There is after all an official, approved, logical rea-
son why we clean our teeth: to preserve dental health and reduce
cavities or decay. Move on. Nothing to see here. But, as I will explain
later in this book, I don’t think that’s the real reason. For instance,
if it is, why are 95 per cent of all toothpastes flavoured with mint?

  Human behaviour is an enigma. Learn to crack the code.

  My assertion is that large parts of human behaviour are like a
cryptic crossword clue: there is always a plausible surface meaning,
but there is also a deeper answer hidden beneath the surface.

  5 Across: Does perhaps rush around (4)

   To someone who is unfamiliar with cryptic crosswords it will
seem almost insane that the correct answer to this clue is ‘deer’,
because there is no hint of the animal in the surface meaning of
the clue. A simple crossword would have a clue like ‘Sylvan rumi-
nants (4)’. But to a cryptic crossword aficionado, solving this clue is
relatively simple – provided you accept that nothing is as it appears.
The ‘surface’ of the clue has misled you to see ‘does’ and ‘rush’ as
verbs, while both are actually nouns. ‘Does’ is here the plural of
doe.* Rush is a reed. Reed ‘around’ – i.e. spelled backwards – is ‘deer’.†
   This insight is only possible once you know not to take the clue
literally, and human behaviour is often cryptic in a similar sense;




               *   A deer, a female deer.
               †   The ‘perhaps’ is needed for purity, as not all deer are
                   does – some are stags.


                                                 rory sutherland             3



                    Copyrighted Material
there is an ostensible, rational, self-declared reason why we do
things, and there is also a cryptic or hidden purpose. Learning how
to disentangle the literal from the lateral meaning is essential to
solving cryptic crosswords, and it is also essential to understanding
human behaviour.

  To avoid stupid mistakes, learn to be slightly silly.

   Most people spend their time at work trying to look intelligent,
and for the last fifty years or more, people have tried to look intel-
ligent by trying to look like scientists; if you ask someone to explain
why something happened, they will generally give you a
plausible-sounding answer that makes them seem intelligent,
rational or scientific but that may or may not be the real answer.
The problem here is that real life is not a conventional science – the
tools which work so well when designing a Boeing 787, say, will not
work so well when designing a customer experience or a tax pro-
gramme. People are not nearly as pliable or predictable as carbon
fibre or metal alloys, and we should not pretend that they are.
   Adam Smith, the father of economics, identified this problem in
the late eighteenth century,‡ but it is a lesson which many econo-
mists have been ignoring ever since. If you want to look like a
scientist, it pays to cultivate an air of certainty, but the problem
with attachment to certainty is that it causes people completely to
misrepresent the nature of the problem being examined, as if it
were a simple physics problem rather than a psychological one.
There is hence an ever-present temptation to pretend things are
more ‘logical’ than they really are.




               ‡   Indeed Ibn Khaldun, the father of sociology, perhaps
                   saw it in the fourteenth century.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code                4



                     Copyrighted Material
INTRODUCING
PSYCHO-LOGIC
This book is intended as a provocation, and is only accidentally a
work of philosophy. It is about how you and other humans make
decisions, and why these decisions may differ from what might be
considered ‘rationality’. My word to describe the way we make deci-
sions – to distinguish it from the artificial concepts of ‘logic’ and
‘rationality’ – is ‘psycho-logic’. It often diverges dramatically from
the kind of logic you’ll have been taught in high school maths lessons
or in Economics 101. Rather than being designed to be optimal, it
has evolved to be useful.
   Logic is what makes a successful engineer or mathematician, but
psycho-logic is what has made us a successful breed of monkey,
that has survived and flourished over time. This alternative logic
emerges from a parallel operating system within the human mind,
which often operates unconsciously, and is far more powerful and
pervasive than you realise. Rather like gravity, it is a force that
nobody noticed until someone put a name to it.
   I have chosen psycho-logic as a neutral and non-judgemental
term. I have done this for a reason. When we do put a name to
non-rational behaviour, it is usually a word like ‘emotion’, which
makes it sound like logic’s evil twin. ‘You’re being emotional’ is used
as code for ‘you’re being an idiot’. If you went into most boardrooms
and announced that you had rejected a merger on ‘emotional


                                              rory sutherland        5



                   Copyrighted Material
grounds’, you would likely be shown the door. Yet we experience
emotions for a reason – often a good reason for which we don’t
have the words.
  Robert Zion, the social psychologist, once described cognitive
psychology as ‘social psychology with all the interesting variables
set to zero’. The point he was making is that humans are a deeply
social species (which may mean that research into human behav-
iour or choices in artificial experiments where there is no social
context isn’t really all that useful). In the real world, social context
is absolutely critical. For instance, as the anthropologist Pierre
Bourdieu observes, gift giving is viewed as a good thing in most
human societies, but it only takes a very small change in context
to make a gift an insult rather than a blessing; returning a present
to the person who has given it to you, for example, is one of the
rudest things you can do. Similarly, offering people money when
they do something you like makes perfect sense according to eco-
nomic theory and is called an incentive, but this does not mean
you should try to pay your spouse for sex.*
  The alchemy of this book’s title is the science of knowing what
economists are wrong about. The trick to being an alchemist lies
not in understanding universal laws, but in spotting the many
instances where those laws do not apply. It lies not in narrow logic,
but in the equally important skill of knowing when and how to
abandon it. This is why alchemy is more valuable today than ever.




               *   As an experiment, I tried this once – about three
                   months later, I was offered some sex. So the economic
                   approach, if it works at all, works rather slowly.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code             6



                     Copyrighted Material
Not everything that makes sense works, and not everything that
works makes sense. The top-right section of this graph is popu-
lated with the very real and significant advances made in pure
science, where achievements can be made by improving on
human perception and psychology. In the other quadrants,
‘wonky’ human perception and emotionality are integral to any
workable solution.
   The bicycle may seem a strange inclusion here: however,
although humans can learn how to ride bicycles quite easily,
physicists still cannot fully understand how bicycles work.
Seriously. The bicycle evolved by trial and error more than by
intentional design.




                                           rory sutherland        7



              Copyrighted Material
SOME THINGS ARE
DISHWASHER-PROOF,
OTHERS ARE
REASON-PROOF
Here’s a simple (if expensive) lifestyle hack. If you would like
everything in your kitchen to be dishwasher-proof, simply treat
everything in your kitchen as though it was; after a year or so,
anything that isn’t dishwasher-proof will have been either
destroyed or rendered unusable. Bingo – everything you have left
will now be dishwasher-proof! Think of it as a kind of kitchen-
utensil Darwinism.
   Similarly, if you expose every one of the world’s problems to osten-
sibly logical solutions, those that can easily be solved by logic will
rapidly disappear, and all that will be left are the ones that are
logic-proof – those where, for whatever reason, the logical answer
does not work. Most political, business, foreign policy and, I strongly
suspect, marital problems seem to be of this type.
   This isn’t the Middle Ages, which had too many alchemists and
not enough scientists. Now it’s the other way around; people who
are very good at deploying and displaying conventional, deductive
logic are everywhere, and they’re usually busily engaged in trying
to apply some theory or model to something in order to optimise
it. Much of the time, this is a good thing. I don’t want a conceptual
artist in charge of air-traffic control, for instance. However, we now
unfortunately fetishise logic to such an extent that we are increas-
ingly blind to its failings.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code           8



                     Copyrighted Material
  For instance, the victorious Brexit campaign in Britain and the
election of Donald Trump in the United States have both been rou-
tinely blamed on the clueless and emotional behaviour of
undereducated voters, but you could make equally strong cases
that the Remain campaign in Britain and Hillary Clinton’s failed bid
for the American presidency failed because of the clueless, hyper-
rational behaviour of overeducated advisors, who threw away huge
natural advantages. At one point we in Britain were even warned
that ‘a vote to leave the EU might result in rising labour costs’ – by
a highly astute businessman* who was so enraptured with models
of economic efficiency that he was clearly unaware most voters
would understand a ‘rise in labour costs’ as meaning a ‘pay rise’.
  Perhaps most startlingly of all, every single one of the Remain cam-
paign’s arguments resorted to economic logic, yet the EU is patently
a political project, which served to make them seem greedy rather
than principled, especially as the most vocal Remain supporters
came from a class of people who had done very nicely out of globali-
sation. Notice that Winston Churchill did not urge us to fight the
Second World War ‘in order to regain access to key export markets’.

  More data leads to better decisions. Except when it doesn’t.

  Across the Atlantic, meanwhile, the Clinton campaign was dom-
inated by a strategist called Robby Mook, who had become so
enamoured of data and mathematical modelling that he refused
to use anything else. He derided Bill Clinton for suggesting he should
connect the campaign with white working-class voters in the
Midwest, mimicking a ‘Grampa Simpson’ voice to mock the former
president† and dismissing another suggestion with the smug ‘my
data disagree with your anecdotes’.


               *   Stuart Rose, former executive chairman of Marks &
                   Spencer.
               †   Whatever else you may think of Bill Clinton, his track
                   record clearly indicates that he is an instinctive
                   political genius.


                                                rory sutherland         9



                   Copyrighted Material
   Yet perhaps the anecdotal evidence was right, because the data
was clearly wrong. Clinton did not visit Wisconsin once in the
entire campaign, wrongly assuming that she would win there eas-
ily. Some in her team suggested that she should visit in the last
days before the election, but the data told her to go to Arizona
instead. Now I’m British, and have only been to Arizona four or
five times, and Wisconsin twice. But even I would have said, ‘that
decision sounds weird to me’. After all, nothing I have ever seen
in Wisconsin suggested that it was a state that would never vote
for Donald Trump, and it has always had a strong streak of politi-
cal eccentricity.
   The need to rely on data can also blind you to important facts
that lie outside your model. It was surely relevant that Trump was
filling sports halls wherever he campaigned, while Clinton was
drawing sparse crowds. It’s important to remember that big data
all comes from the same place – the past. A new campaigning style,
a single rogue variable or a ‘black swan’ event can throw the most
perfectly calibrated model into chaos. However, the losing sides in
both these campaigns have never once considered that their reli-
ance on logic might been the cause of their defeats, and the blame
was pinned on anyone from ‘Russians’ to ‘Facebook’. Maybe they
were blameworthy in part, but no one has spent enough time ask-
ing whether an overreliance on mathematical models of
decision-making might be to blame for the fact that in each case
the clear favourite blew it.
   In theory, you can’t be too logical, but in practice, you can. Yet we
never seem to believe that it is possible for logical solutions to fail.
After all, if it makes sense, how can it possibly be wrong?
   To solve logic-proof problems requires intelligent, logical people
to admit the possibility that they might be wrong about something,
but these people’s minds are often most resistant to change – per-
haps because their status is deeply entwined with their capacity
for reason. Highly educated people don’t merely use logic; it is part
of their identity. When I told one economist that you can often
increase the sales of a product by increasing its price, the reaction


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code           10



                     Copyrighted Material
was one not of curiosity but of anger. It was as though I had insulted
his dog or his favourite football team.
  Imagine if it were impossible to get a well-paid job, or to hold
political office, unless you supported the New York Yankees or
Chelsea Football Club. We would regard such partisanship as absurd,
yet devoted fans of logic control the levers of power everywhere.
The Nobel Prize-winning behavioural scientist Richard Thaler said,
‘As a general rule the US Government is run by lawyers who occa-
sionally take advice from economists. Others interested in helping
the lawyers out need not apply.’
  Today it sometimes seems impossible to get a job without first
demonstrating that you are in thrall to logic. We flatter such people
through our education system, we promote them to positions of
power and are subjected every day to their opinions in the news-
papers. Our business consultants, accountants, policy-makers and
think-tank pundits are all selected and rewarded for their ability
to display impressive flights of reason.
  This book is not an attack on the many healthy uses of logic or
reason, but it is an attack on a dangerous kind of logical overreach,
which demands that every solution should have a convincing ration-
ale before it can even be considered or attempted. If this book
provides you with nothing else, I hope it gives you permission to
suggest slightly silly things from time to time. To fail a little more
often. To think unlike an economist. There are many problems which
are logic-proof, and which will never be solved by the kind of people
who aspire to go to the World Economic Forum at Davos.‡ Remember
the story of those envelopes.

  We could never have evolved to be rational – it makes you weak.




               ‡   A bizarre international junket where, for some reason,
                   the world’s most intelligent people collectively decide
                   that it is a good idea to spend part of January halfway
                   up a mountain.


                                                rory sutherland        11



                   Copyrighted Material
   Now, as reasonable people, you’re going to hate me saying this, and
I don’t feel good saying it myself. But, for all the man’s faults, I think
Donald Trump can solve many problems that the more rational Hillary
Clinton simply wouldn’t have been able to address. I don’t admire
him, but he is a decision maker from a different mould. For example,
both candidates wanted manufacturing jobs to return to the United
States. Hillary’s solution was logical – engagement in tripartite trade
negotiations with Mexico and Canada. But Donald simply said, ‘We’re
going to build a wall, and the Mexicans are going to pay.’
   ‘Ah,’ you say. ‘But he’s never going to build that wall.’ And I agree
with you – I think it highly unlikely that a wall will be built, and
even less likely that the unlucky Mexicans will agree to pay for it.
But here’s the thing: he may not need to build the wall to achieve
his trade ambitions – he just needs people to believe that he might.
Similarly, he doesn’t need to repeal the North American Free Trade
Agreement – he just needs to raise it as a possibility. Irrational
people are much more powerful than rational people, because their
threats are so much more convincing.
   For perhaps thirty years, the prevailing economic consensus
meant that no American carmaker felt they owed any patriotic duty
to workers in their home country; had you suggested such a thing
in any of their board meetings, you would have been viewed as a
dinosaur. So pervasive was the belief in untrammelled free trade
– on both sides of the American political divide – that manufactur-
ing was shifted overseas without any consideration about whether
there might be a risk to losing the support of government or public
opinion. All Trump needed to do was to signal that this assumption
was no longer safe. No tariffs (or walls) are actually needed: the
threat of them alone is enough.§
   A rational leader suggests changing course to avoid a storm. An
irrational one can change the weather.


               §   Hillary could not convincingly have made such a
                   threat, because everyone would have known it was
                   hollow. Trump is crazy enough to go through with it.


                    introduction: cracking the (human) code            12



                      Copyrighted Material
   Being slightly bonkers can be a good negotiating strategy: being
rational means you are predictable, and being predictable makes
you weak. Hillary thinks like an economist, while Donald is a game
theorist, and is able to achieve with one tweet what would take
Clinton four years of congressional infighting. That’s alchemy; you
may hate it, but it works.
   Some scientists believe that driverless cars will not work unless
they learn to be irrational. If such cars stop reliably whenever a
pedestrian appears in front of them, pedestrian crossings will be
unnecessary and jaywalkers will be able to march into the road,
forcing the driverless car to stop suddenly, at great discomfort to
its occupants. To prevent this, driverless cars may have to learn to
be ‘angry’, and to occasionally maliciously fail to stop in time and
strike the pedestrian on the shins.

  If you are wholly predictable, people learn to hack you.




                                            rory sutherland      13



                  Copyrighted Material
CRIME, FICTION AND
POST-RATIONALISM:
OR WHY REALITY ISN’T
NEARLY AS LOGICAL AS
WE THINK
Think of life as like a criminal investigation: a beautifully linear and
logical narrative when viewed in retrospect, but a fiendishly random,
messy and wasteful process when experienced in real time. Crime
fiction would be unreadably boring if it accurately depicted events,
because the vast majority of it would involve enquiries that led
nowhere. And that’s how it’s supposed to be – the single worst thing
that can happen in a criminal investigation is for everyone involved
to become fixated on the same theory, because one false assumption
shared by everyone can undermine the entire investigation. There’s
a name for this – it’s called ‘privileging the hypothesis’.
   A recent example of this phenomenon emerged during the bizarre
trial of Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito for the murder of
Meredith Kercher in Perugia, Italy. It became impossible for the
investigator and his team to see beyond their initial suspicion that,
after Kercher had been killed, the perpetrator had staged a break-in
to ‘make it look like a burglary gone wrong’. Since no burglar from
outside would need to stage a break-in, their only conclusion was
that the staging took place to divert attention from the other flat-
mates and to disguise the fact that it was an inside job. Unfortunately,
the initial suspicion was incorrect.
   I sympathise a little with their attachment to the theory. After
all, the break-in did, at first glance, look as though it might have


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code           14



                     Copyrighted Material
been faked: there was some broken glass outside the window and
an absence of footprints. But the theory of an inside job staged to
look like a botched burglary was so doggedly held that all subse-
quent contradictory evidence was either suppressed or not shared
with the press, and the result was a nonsense.
   The break-in did look rather absurd at first glance – why would
you break into a flat from a relatively exposed upstairs window?
– until you realise that the purpose of breaking a window was not
to gain access to the house, but to make a hell of a lot of noise while
standing in a place from which an easy escape was possible. It thus
helped the perpetrator ascertain with some confidence that there
was no one around; if you smash a window and nobody intervenes,
you can be fairly sure no one is going to notice you climbing through
the same window five minutes later, but if a light goes on and a dog
starts barking, you can simply leg it.
   This example goes to the heart of how we see the world. Do we
look at things from a single perspective, where you do one thing to
achieve another, or do we accept that complex things are rather
different? In a designed system, such as a machine, one thing does
serve one narrow purpose, but in an evolved or complex system, or
in human behaviour, things can have multiple uses depending on
the context within which they are viewed.
   The human mouth allows you to eat, but if your nose is blocked,
it also allows you to breathe. In a similar way, it seems illogical to
break into a building using the noisiest means possible, until you
understand the context in which the offender is operating. It is not
appropriate to bring the same habits of thought that we use to deal
with things that have been consciously designed to understanding
complex and evolved systems, with second-order considerations.
   My problem with Marxism is that it makes too much sense.




                                              rory sutherland       15



                   Copyrighted Material
THE DANGER OF
TECHNOCRATIC ELITES
If you are a technocrat, you’ll generally have achieved your status
by explaining things in reverse; the plausible post-rationalisation
is the stock-in-trade of the commentariat. Unfortunately, it is
difficult for such people to avoid the trap of assuming that the
same skills that can explain the past can be used to predict the
future. Like a criminal investigation, what looks neat and logical
when viewed with hindsight is usually much messier in real time.
The same is true of scientific progress. It is easy to depict a dis-
covery, once made, as resulting from a logical, and linear process,
but that does not mean that science should progress according
to neat, linear and sequential rules.
   There are two separate forms of scientific enquiry – the discov-
ery of what works and the explanation and understanding of why
it works. These are two entirely different things, and can happen
in either order. Scientific progress is not a one-way street. Aspirin,
for instance, was known to work as an analgesic for decades before
anyone knew how it worked. It was a discovery made by experience
and only much later was it explained. If science did not allow for



               *   Bakelite, penicillin, the microwave, X-rays, radar, radio
                   were all discovered ‘backwards’.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code               16



                     Copyrighted Material
such lucky accidents,* its record would be much poorer – imagine
if we forbade the use of penicillin, because its discovery was not
predicted in advance? Yet policy and business decisions are over-
whelmingly based on a ‘reason first, discovery later’ methodology,
which seems wasteful in the extreme. Remember the bicycle.
   Evolution, too, is a haphazard process that discovers what can
survive in a world where some things are predictable but others
aren’t. It works because each gene reaps the rewards and costs from
its lucky or unlucky mistakes, but it doesn’t care a damn about
reasons. It isn’t necessary for anything to make sense: if it works it
survives and proliferates; if it doesn’t, it diminishes and dies. It
doesn’t need to know why it works – it just needs to work.
   Perhaps a plausible ‘why’ should not be a pre-requisite in decid-
ing a ‘what’, and the things we try should not be confined to those
things whose future success we can most easily explain in retro-
spect. The record of science in some ways casts doubt on a scientific
approach to problem solving.




                                             rory sutherland       17



                   Copyrighted Material
ON NONSENSE AND
NON-SENSE
I’ll admit it: I have only become qualified to write this book by acci-
dent. I am a classicist, not an anthropologist, but have, almost by
chance, spent 30 years in the advertising industry – mostly in what
is known as ‘direct response’, the form of advertising where people
are urged to respond directly to your advertisement. It consists of
well-funded behavioural experiments on a grand scale, and what
this teaches us is that the models of human behaviour devised and
promoted by economists and other conventionally rational people
are wholly inadequate at predicting human behaviour.
   What are the great achievements of economics? Ricardo’s Theory
of Comparative Advantage, perhaps? Or The General Theory of
Employment, Interest and Money by John Maynard Keynes? And what
is the single most important finding of the advertising industry?
Perhaps it is that ‘advertisements featuring cute animals tend to be
more successful than ads that don’t’.
   I’m not joking. I recently had a meeting with a client where I
learned that a customer prize draw to win ‘free energy for a year
– worth over £1,000’ received 67,000 entries. The subsequent draw,
where you could win a cute penguin nightlight (with a value of £15)
received over 360,000 entries. One customer even turned down an
offer of a £200 refund on their bill, saying, ‘No, I’d rather have a
penguin.’ Even though I know this is true, so great is my desire to


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code          18



                     Copyrighted Material
appear rational that I would find it very hard to stand in front of a
board of directors and recommend that their advertising should
feature rabbits, or perhaps a family of lemurs, because it sounds
like nonsense. It isn’t, though. It’s a different kind of thing, which
I call ‘non-sense’.
   Behavioural economics is an odd term. As Warren Buffett’s busi-
ness partner Charlie Munger once said, ‘If economics isn’t
behavioural, I don’t know what the hell is.’ It’s true: in a more
sensible world, economics would be a subdiscipline of psychol-
ogy.* Adam Smith was as much a behavioural economist as an
economist – The Wealth of Nations (1776) doesn’t contain a single
equation. But, strange though it may seem, the study of econom-
ics has long been detached from how people behave in the real
world, preferring to concern itself with a parallel universe in
which people behave as economists think they should. It is to cor-
rect this circular logic that behavioural economics – made famous
by experts such as Daniel Kahneman, Amos Tversky, Dan Ariely
and Richard Thaler – has come to prominence. In many areas of
policy and business there is much more value to be found in
understanding how people behave in reality than how they should
behave in theory.†
   Behavioural economics might well be described as the study of
the nonsensical and the non-sensical aspects of human behaviour.
Sometimes our behaviour is nonsensical because we evolved for
conditions different to those we now find ourselves in.‡ However,
much ‘irrational’ human behaviour is not really nonsensical at all;
it is non-sensical. For instance, viewed through the lens of



               *   The dissident Austrian School of economists wisely
                   believed this.
               †   I know. Who would have thought it?
               ‡   For example, we probably love sugar too much: in the
                   ancestral environment there was no refined sugar, and
                   the only food with a comparable glycemic load was
                   honey.


                                               rory sutherland       19



                   Copyrighted Material
evolutionary psychology, the effectiveness of cute animals in adver-
tising should not shock us. Advertising exists to be noticed, and we
have evolved, surely, to pay attention to living things. An evolution-
ary psychologist might also suggest that a penguin nightlight – a
gift for one’s child – might be more emotionally rewarding than a
cash reward, which is a gain for oneself.§
   Sometimes human behaviour that seems nonsensical is really
non-sensical – it only appears nonsensical because we are judging
people’s motivations, aims and intentions the wrong way. And
sometimes behaviour is non-sensical because evolution is just
smarter than we are. Evolution is like a brilliant uneducated crafts-
man: what it lacks in intellect it makes up for in experience.
   For instance, for a long time the human appendix was thought
to be nonsense, a vestigial remnant of some part of the digestive
tract, which had served a useful purpose in our distant ancestors.
It is certainly true that you can remove people’s appendices and
they seem to suffer no immediate ill effects. However, in 2007,
William Parker, Randy Bollinger and their colleagues at Duke
University in North Carolina hypothesised that the appendix actu-
ally serves as a haven for bacteria in the digestive system that are
valuable both in aiding digestion and in providing immunity from
disease. So, just as miners in the California Gold Rush would guard
a live sourdough yeast ‘starter’ in a pouch around their necks, the
body has its own pouch to preserve something valuable. Research
later showed that individuals whose appendix had been removed
were four times more likely to suffer from clostridium difficile colitis,
an infection of the colon.
   Given that cholera was a huge cause of death only a few gener-
ations ago, and given that it is thought by some to be making a


               §   My friend, the evolutionary biologist Nichola Raihani,
                   recently had her child’s bicycle helmet stolen. She was
                   immediately struck by the strength of her outrage,
                   which was far more extreme than if her own bicycle
                   helmet had been stolen.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code             20



                      Copyrighted Material
comeback, perhaps the appendix should no longer be treated as
disposable – it seems that, rather like the Spanish royal family,
most of the time it’s pointless or annoying, but sometimes it’s
invaluable.¶

  Be careful before calling something nonsense.

  The lesson we should learn from the appendix is that some-
thing can be valuable without necessarily being valuable all the
time. Evolution does not take such a short-term, instrumental-
ist view. In looking for the everyday function of the human
appendix, we were looking for the wrong thing. Whether some-
thing makes sense in theory matters less than whether it works
in practice.
  Like quite a few fellow Anglicans (but unlike my wife who is a
priest and hospital chaplain) I am not quite sure of the existence
of God, but I would be reluctant to disparage religion as nonsense,
as some people do.
  In a 1996 survey on the place of religion in public life in America,
the Heritage Institute found that:

   1. Churchgoers are more likely to be married, less likely to be
      divorced or single and more likely to manifest high levels
      of satisfaction in their marriage.
   2. Church attendance is the most important predictor of
      marital stability and happiness.
   3. The regular practice of religion helps poor people move
      out of poverty. Regular church attendance, for example, is




               ¶   Spain’s peaceful and robust transition to democracy
                   after Franco might have been impossible without the
                   decisive role played by an arbitrary and symbolic head
                   of state.


                                               rory sutherland        21



                   Copyrighted Material
      particularly instrumental in helping young people escape
      the poverty of inner-city life.
   4. Regular religious practice generally inoculates individuals
      against a host of social problems, including suicide, drug
      abuse, out-of-wedlock births, crime and divorce.
   5. The regular practice of religion also encourages such
      beneficial effects on mental health as less depression,
      higher self-esteem and greater family and marital
      happiness.
   6. In repairing damage caused by alcoholism, drug addiction
      and marital breakdown, religious belief and practice are a
      major source of strength and recovery.**
   7. Regular practice of religion is good for personal physical
      health: it increases longevity, improves one’s chances of
      recovery from illness and lessens the incidence of many
      killer diseases.

Religion feels incompatible with modern life because it seems to
involve delusional beliefs, but if the above results came from a trial
of a new drug, we would want to add it to tap water. Just because
we don’t know why it works, we should not be blind to the fact that
it does.††
   Business, creativity and the arts are full of successful non-sense.
In fact the single greatest strength of free markets is their ability
to generate innovative things whose popularity makes no sense.
Non-sense includes things that are useful or effective, even though
(or perhaps because) they defy conventional logic.
   Almost all good advertising contains some element of non-sense.
At first glance this might make it look silly – it can certainly make
selling it to a sceptical group of clients painfully embarrassing.




               ** Alcoholics Anonymous is, remember, modelled on
                  explicitly religious principles.
               †† Take that, Dawkins!


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code         22



                     Copyrighted Material
Imagine you are the board of an airline and have just spent three
hours debating whether to buy 13 Airbus A350s or 11 Boeing 787s,
each of which costs around $150 million. At the end of the meeting,
you are presented with an idea for an advertising campaign that
does not show an aircraft at all, but instead proposes to focus on
the cucumber sandwiches and scones that might be served on
board. This is non-sense – however, around 90 per cent of people
have no idea what sort of aircraft they are travelling on or how a
jet engine works but will infer a great deal about the safety and
quality of the experience offered by an airline from the care and
attention it pays to on-board snacks.‡‡
   Presenting such things in a business setting packed with MBA
graduates is slightly embarrassing; you start to envy people in IT
or tax-planning, who can go into a meeting with rational propos-
als on a chart or spreadsheet. However, this fixation with
sense-making can prove expensive. Imagine you are a company
whose product is not selling well. Which of the following propos-
als would be easier to make in a board meeting called to resolve
the problem? a) ‘We should reduce the price’ or b) ‘We should
feature more ducks in our advertising’. The first, of course – and
yet the second could, in fact, be much more profitable.
   This is a book written in defence of things that don’t quite make
sense, but it is also a book that – conversely – attacks our fetishisa-
tion of things that do. Once you accept that there may be a value or



               ‡‡   The gin brand Hendrick’s engaged in a very clever bit
                    of non-sense, when they suggested that their product
                    be served not with lemon but with cucumber, which
                    gained immediate salience. Being British, I failed to
                    notice the genius of this move, which was that it also
                    positioned the drink as sophisticatedly British in the
                    United States; Americans find cucumber sandwiches
                    a British peculiarity. To a Brit, of course, a cucumber
                    is not seen as being particularly British – it is just
                    something we make sandwiches with.


                                                rory sutherland         23



                    Copyrighted Material
purpose to things that are hard to justify, you will naturally come
to another conclusion: that it is perfectly possible to be both rational
and wrong.
   Logical ideas often fail because logic demands universally appli-
cable laws but humans, unlike atoms, are not consistent enough
in their behaviour for such laws to hold very broadly. For example,
to the despair of utilitarians, we are not remotely consistent in
whom we choose to help or cooperate with. Imagine that you get
into financial trouble and ask a rich friend for a loan of £5,000, who
patiently explains that you are a much less needy and deserving
case for support than a village in Africa to which he plans to donate
the same amount. Your friend is behaving perfectly rationally.
Unfortunately he is no longer your friend.
   It is impossible for human relations to work unless we accept
that our obligations to some people will always exceed our obliga-
tions to others. Universal ideas like utilitarianism are logical, but
seem not to function with the way we have evolved. Perhaps it is
no coincidence that Jeremy Bentham, the father of utilitarianism,
was one of the strangest and most anti-social people who ever
lived.§§
   The drive to be rational has led people to seek political and
economic laws that are akin to the laws of physics – universally
true and applicable. The caste of rational decision makers
requires generalisable laws to allow them confidently to pronounce
on matters without needing to consider the specifics of the




               §§ It has often been proposed that he was autistic. I am
                  reluctant to use this diagnosis too widely, but it is
                  perhaps true that he was overburdened with the use
                  of reason. He once declined the chance to meet his
                  young nieces, saying, ‘If I don’t like them, I will not
                  enjoy the experience, and if I do like them then I will
                  be sad to see them leave.’ Perfectly reasonable, I
                  suppose, but weird as hell! Kant was also a weirdo.


                   introduction: cracking the (human) code              24



                     Copyrighted Material
situation.¶¶ And in reality ‘context’ is often the most important
thing in determining how people think, behave and act: this
simple fact dooms many universal models from the start.***
Because in order to form universal laws, naïve rationalists have
to pretend that context doesn’t matter.




              ¶¶ Notice that ordinary people are never allowed to
                 pronounce on complex problems. When do you ever
                 hear an immigration officer interviewed about
                 immigration, or a street cop interviewed about crime?
                 These people patently know far more about these
                 issues than economists or sociologists, and yet we
                 instead seek wisdom from people with models and
                 theories rather than actual experience.

              *** For instance, will wealthy Germans help poorer
                  Germans? Yup. Will they help Syrians? Yes, albeit
                  reluctantly. Poor Greeks, however? No chance.


                                              rory sutherland         25



                  Copyrighted Material
