In 2026, there are five text-based
formats that you need to know how to
write if you want to build an audience,
you want to become known for a niche you
own, you want to get leverage out of
your library, you want to pull
short-form out of long-form and expand
long-form out of short-form, and most of
all, you want to make money online from
your content directly, or you want to
use your content to drive customers to
your business. Because if you can write
online using these five types of
formats, you can write anything. You can
write and self-publish books. You can
build a category-defining free or paid
newsletter. You can turn proven
short-form content into viral long-form
content. You can expand long-form
content into digital products or
cohort-based curriculums, even coaching
and consulting frameworks. These five
formats are the foundational pieces of
everything that you could ever want to
write and create. But before we talk
about the five formats, we need to back
up one step. Where should you be writing
in 2026? So, quick history lesson. Back
in 2010, the answer was to start a blog.
Then, in 2014, the answer was to write
on Facebook and Quora. Then, in 2016,
the answer was Quora and Medium. Then,
in 2018, the answer was Medium and
LinkedIn. Then, in 2020, the answer was
Twitter, now known as X. Then, in 2023,
the answer was X and LinkedIn. My point
is, every two or three years, where you
should be writing online changes. This
is because new social platforms emerge
and old social platforms degrade or even
die. And algorithms continue to change
and prioritize new content formats and
sometimes suddenly punish other content
formats. So, the name of the game isn't
really learning how to write and growth
hack one individual platform and then
never have to adapt ever again. The name
of the game is to understand that the
game is always changing and build the
skills that allow you to change with it.
This is why my entire point of view for
writing online is based on this idea
that your library is more valuable than
virality. The performance of any
individual piece on any one platform is
not what matters. Going viral is cool
for like two days. It's a dopamine rush.
But then, 48 hours later, your reach
reverts back to your previous baseline.
You go right back to doing exactly what
you were doing before, which is just
consistently playing the lottery game
that is writing online. I call it a
lottery game because you don't have
control over when you win the lottery.
In fact, more often than not, the pieces
that you work really hard on and think
are going to go viral and get a ton of
positive feedback are the ones that end
up flopping. And the pieces that you
write really quickly and debate even
publishing at all because you don't
think they're any good are the ones that
end up going viral. I literally just had
this happen. I spent 20 hours writing
this long-form piece on 20 lessons
learned selling over $20 of online
writing courses. These are very
expensive lessons that I've had to learn
building our portfolio of writing
businesses. And it took a lot of time
for me to write and crystallize all of
these lessons into a 10,000-plus word
essay and newsletter. I was sure that it
was going to go niche viral in our
little corner of the internet. And then
I posted it and it completely flopped.
In fact, it's one of my lowest
performing pieces ever. So, this is not
something that you only experience as a
beginner. I've been writing online for
more than 15 years and I still
experience this on a daily basis.
Writing online is a lottery game. You
don't know what's going to work, which
means the only thing that you have
control over is three things: where are
you write, what you write, and how many
days, weeks, months, and years you write
for. So, let's start at the beginning.
The three best platforms for text-based
content in 2026 are X, LinkedIn, and
Substack. And here's why. First, X. X
has over 500 million users. It also is
the platform with the highest capacity
to go viral, meaning as far as
text-based content goes, it's where you
are most likely to hit a home run and
reach millions of readers. It also has
the most flexibility in terms of the
types of content that you can publish.
You can write standalone short-form
tweets. You can connect tweets into
threads. You can post medium-length
essays and expanded posts. You can write
full-blown articles and embed images.
You can do a lot on X today that you
couldn't do back when it was called
Twitter 5 or 10 years ago, which is why
we recommend every single writer start
on X first. Second, LinkedIn. LinkedIn
has over a billion users. Just think
about that. It is a gigantic platform.
But LinkedIn also has all kinds of
benefits for writers specifically. First
of all, it is a primarily text-based
platform. So yes, people post images and
videos, but text is by far the most
common content type. Second, LinkedIn as
a platform has the largest number of
affluent users. So especially if you're
writing and creating content in an
industry where your goal is to attract
qualified readers and prospects for your
business, LinkedIn is probably your best
bet. Third, LinkedIn has a severe
mismatch between creators and consumers.
Most writers think LinkedIn is just a
job searching platform. But remember, it
has over a billion users. So just by
writing and creating content on LinkedIn
instantly puts you in the top 1% of
writers and creators on the platform.
Third, Substack. Little fun fact,
Substack has raised over a hundred
million dollars in venture funding and
is growing very fast. Substack has a lot
of potential and for the past few years
we've been making a big bet publishing
all of our content on Substack. Because
as a general rule of thumb, just follow
the money. Substack has raised over a
hundred million dollars from some of the
most well-known venture capital firms in
Silicon Valley and have been very
effective at convincing legacy
journalists to leave major publications
like the New York Times and start their
own newsletters on Substack instead.
Substack also has two very different
components to their platform. They have
the newsletter publishing side and then
they have Substack notes, which is the
social content side. When you publish
newsletters on Substack, you get to tap
into Substack's social feed and
distribution. This is a huge benefit. I
can't emphasize enough how rare it is
for a SaaS platform to have some sort of
social distribution. A great example is
just look at our Substack paid
newsletter Write With AI. Yes, we drive
external traffic to our newsletter here,
but more than 55% of all of our email
list subscribers have come from inside
Substack's own recommendation engine.
That is a lot of free growth. So, you
see, choosing where to write online is
half the game. You always want to be
writing in the digital environments most
likely to give you distribution. And the
best platforms today are not going to be
the best platforms tomorrow, which is
why what matters more than anything
else, I repeat this over and over again,
is that you are building a valuable
library of content in a niche over a
prolonged period of time. That way,
whenever a new platform emerges or an
old platform dies, your library retains
its value. And all you have to do is
copy-paste your entire niche library
over to the next new platform and
capitalize on the next new arbitrage
opportunity. So, now that you know where
to write, let's talk about what to
write. The five best writing formats in
2026. Since the social platforms that
provide the best distribution of
text-based content are always changing,
that means the formats that perform best
on each platform are also always
changing. For example, back in 2021, the
best writing format, and the one that
provided the most free distribution, was
actually Twitter threads. If you're not
familiar, these were strings of
stand-alone tweets connected into what
was called a thread, with the first
tweet being some sort of hook that got
the readers to click into it and scroll
through the entire thread. Back in 2021,
if you were even halfway competent at
writing threads, you were able to get
exponentially more reach and engagement
on your writing than if you were to post
the same exact content on any other
social platform. This is what I mean
when I say every few years the best
platforms change and so do the best
formats on each of those platforms. And
so if you can learn how to spot these
trends, you can capitalize on them. For
example, writing Twitter threads is how
we built our writing program Ship 30 for
30 to millions of dollars in revenue in
its first year. All me and my business
partner Dickie Bush did was write
threads on writing related topics and at
the end of the thread we would link to
our start writing online free 5-day
email course. And then we would pitch
all those subscribers on our email list
on the next cohort of Ship 30 for 30.
Those were the only three things we did.
Write Twitter threads, send them to an
educational email course, remind them,
"Hey, the next Ship 30 for 30 cohort
starts in a month or a week." So, what
are the best formats right now on X and
LinkedIn and Substack? Well, let's walk
through each one. Format number one,
tweets. Tweets are short-form text-based
posts, basically bite-size thoughts
compressed into 280 characters or less.
I find writers and creators struggle
with this format more than any other
format on the internet. And that's
because, as the 17th century French
mathematician and philosopher Blaise
Pascal put it so eloquently, "If I had
more time, I would have written a
shorter letter." Writing something short
that is clear and memorable is very
hard. It's a skill. But these short-form
text posts, or tweets as they were known
back in my day, are really the
foundation of all great writing. A
single sentence tweet is the same thing
as a great first sentence in a longer
piece. A two-sentence tweet is the same
thing as a hook either in a text post or
in a TikTok. A succinct paragraph tweet
is the same thing as a paragraph in a
longer-form essay. On top of that, and I
notice this is something a lot of people
don't talk about, short-form written
content is really a game of rhetoric.
The best book I have ever read on this
topic of rhetoric and how this can apply
to short-form content on the internet is
this book called The Elements of
Eloquence by Mark Forsyth. I keep this
book on my desk. I reference it all the
time. In this book, he lists out
timeless writing mechanisms for making
single phrases striking and memorable
just by altering their wording slightly.
For example, there is a reason why
people remember this iconic phrase from
John F. Kennedy's inaugural address in
1961, "Ask not what your country can do
for you, ask what you can do for your
country." That's a great line, but it's
memorable because it uses an age-old
rhetoric mechanism called an
antimetabole, repeating the same words
in reverse grammatical order. Another
more modern example would be
entrepreneur Alex Hormozi, who's known
for his short-form content on X. If you
look closely, the vast majority of his
tweets are packaged using these timeless
rhetoric principles. For example, this
one where he says, "The goal of youth is
optionality. The goal of adulthood is
commitment." Now, there are two
different rhetoric mechanisms working
here. The primary one is what's called
an antithesis. This is an obvious
observation, "The goal of youth is
optionality," followed by a non-obvious
observation, "The goal of adulthood is
commitment," the opposite. And the
secondary mechanism is what's called
parallelism, which is where two
sentences use identical grammatical
structures, they mirror each other. And
there are dozens and dozens and dozens
of these different types of rhetoric
mechanisms that you can use. And what
they do is they make your short-form
content sharp and clear and much more
memorable. Format number two, atomic
essays. Atomic essays are 300-word
visual essays to master the fundamentals
of writing online. The atomic essay
format is actually a format we invented
for our beginner writing program Ship 30
for 30. And the reason we encourage
writers to practice with it, especially
if they're brand new to writing online,
is because an atomic essay is small
enough that you can write it in 30
minutes or less, but long enough that
you can begin to practice the five
fundamental skills of writing anything
in the digital age. Headlines, so what
are you promising to give the reader if
they click and give you their attention?
Hooks, how do you hook the reader's
attention in the very first sentence?
Formatting, how do you organize your
main points into clear sections using
headers? Writing rhythms, how do you
alternate sentence and paragraph links
to make your writing more dynamic and
easy to read? And five, bulleted lists.
How do you make each section as
skimmable as possible? As soon as you
have these five foundational skills, you
will notice yourself using them
everywhere, from text messages and Slack
messages to emails and even presentation
decks. And the atomic essay format is
the easiest, smallest container to
practice all of these skills
simultaneously. Format number three,
LinkedIn carousels. LinkedIn carousels
are multimedia slideshows that grab
readers' attention and have the highest
likelihood of going viral on LinkedIn.
Carousels have been the best performing
format on LinkedIn since like 2024, and
no matter how many other formats we
test, we find ourselves always coming
back to carousels. However, writing and
building a viral-worthy carousel in your
niche is very different from simply
writing a text-based post. And that's
because carousels combine multiple forms
of media. So, first of all, carousels
are visual first. That means you have to
navigate different word count
constraints relative to other social
platforms and other content formats, cuz
each slide can only hold so many words,
which means each idea needs to be
compressed into its smallest, most
actionable form. This goes back to
writing really effective tweets. If you
know how to write a really effective
tweet, that's going to make it easier to
write each individual slide on a
carousel. Second, carousels lend
themselves better to certain topics,
because carousels are multimedia
slideshows. So, you're prompting readers
to click through each slide. And the
vast majority of carousels that perform
well and go viral do not cover these
big, nuanced topics or require a lot of
explanation or tell long-winded stories.
The best carousels are almost always
listicles. They're sharing 10 tips or
nine mistakes or eight reasons or seven
prompts. So, choosing the right ideas to
turn into LinkedIn carousels is like
half the battle. Third, LinkedIn
carousels involve more skills than just
writing. So, AI has certainly made this
easier, but you're still the one
responsible for the most important
variable, which is your taste. You have
to be the one to use AI to design a
brand kit that you like. You have to
choose the images. You have to assemble
the content in a way that is visually
pleasing to you and to the reader. And
if this sounds like a lot of work, just
remember the skills are the moat, okay?
The reason carousels perform so well on
LinkedIn is because the vast majority of
people don't know how to create
carousels, and they aren't willing to
spend a few hours learning how. But
their loss is your gain. If you can
learn how to create this content format,
you will immediately elevate the
perceived value of your content on
LinkedIn. And don't worry about it. You
can build this skill in stages. If you
want a really beginner-friendly option
to get started, you can create
lightweight text-based carousels using
Typeshare. It's just text inside the
carousel format. If you want something
slightly more advanced, you can create
more branded-looking carousels using an
AI platform like Gamma. And if you want
something pro grade, you can design your
own brand kit and design studio inside
Claude Design or even ChatGPT. And
lastly, what you can do to squeeze even
more juice out of your carousel library
is republish them on other platforms.
So, LinkedIn carousels can very easily
be turned into Instagram carousels and
graphics. LinkedIn carousels can also be
republished on other visual platforms
like Pinterest. There are dozens of
different ways that you can reuse this
content. So, don't think of carousels as
LinkedIn specific. Instead, think of
carousels as a content format. And you
can reuse and republish that format
across any other social platforms that
allow you to publish that same type of
format, something visual, which is
essentially all of them. Format number
four, X articles. X articles are 800-ish
word thought leadership-style blog
posts. Once you've learned the
fundamentals of writing online, your
library of articles is where you will
begin to build the most leverage. This
is because articles are a writing format
that can be reused, republished,
expanded, or compressed in infinite
ways. Okay, so articles can be spliced
apart creating dozens of short-form
posts. Articles can also be copy-pasted
and republished across multiple
platforms. Articles can be sent to your
email list as newsletters. Articles can
be expanded into book chapters. Articles
can be read aloud as YouTube videos. And
pieces of articles can be read as
Instagram reels or TikToks or YouTube
shorts. The list goes on and on.
Unfortunately, a lot of writers and
creators don't know you can do this.
Either they never realized that you can
take the same content and just
copy-paste it to a second or third or
fourth platform. Or they thought if they
did, they would get in trouble or they
would hurt themselves or they would ruin
their SEO, which they're not even trying
to rank for anything anyway. None of
those things are true. This is why my
entire thesis for writing on the
internet is about building your library.
Building your library, building your
library, building your library. That's
the only thing that matters because it's
yours. You own it, which means you can
republish it wherever you want. You can
cut it apart. You can smash it together.
You can take a paragraph from one
article and a different paragraph from
another article. You can create
something new. You can turn the free
content into paid content. You can
splice apart the paid content into free
content. This is what writing online is
all about. So, the bigger your library
of articles grows, the more content you
will have to play with making it easier
and easier to write new things using
ideas and stories and frameworks you've
already written down before. This is
leverage. And format number five, AI
prompts. AI prompts are prompts you
write for yourself, but can also be used
as assets all along your content supply
chain system. You can use them in your
marketing. You can even use them as
digital products inside your business.
We're still very early in the age of AI,
but already it's clear that most people
only think about how to use AI
themselves. They fail to realize that
every single thing you use AI to do
effectively for yourself simultaneously
creates an asset or a product that you
could give away or even sell to your
readers and target customers. So, every
time you use AI, you have to remember
that you're tapping into three different
forms of leverage. First is personal
leverage. So, as I like to say often
inside our AI writing school, you can't
automate what you can't articulate. So,
first you have to learn how to do
something, right? You have to acquire a
skill. But then as soon as you have that
skill, now in the age of AI, the very
next thing you should do is get some
leverage on that skill. You should train
AI on some component of that task or set
of tasks. Now, AI doesn't have to do all
of it 100% end-to-end. I think this is
something a lot of people misunderstand.
But if AI can help you do a singular
piece of that task except 10 times
faster, that in and of itself is
leverage. And the more areas of your
life and business where you can make
those upgrades and build those systems
and get leverage, the better. Or writing
a prompt or using AI to get leverage on
a task for yourself is only the
beginning. The second form of leverage
is marketing leverage. The single most
valuable type of marketing ever is where
you give your target customers something
for free that does two things: saves
them time or helps them make money.
Which means every time you write a
prompt for yourself, you aren't just
automating yourself or your own work.
What you're also doing is creating an
incredibly compelling and valuable
marketing asset. This is an incentive
for your target customers to take some
kind of action. For example, you can
say, "I built this prompt for myself. It
now saves me 5 hours per week. I want
you to have it for free. All you have to
do is give me your email." There is no
better marketing than that. And I
believe the masses still haven't
realized this opportunity exists inside
every single niche on planet Earth.
Everyone is asking themselves how they
can use AI in their life and in their
business right now. Which means no
matter what your niche is, you have the
opportunity to help give people the same
prompts and systems that you're building
for yourself. Which leads to the third
form of leverage, which is business
leverage. So, the same way that your
library of content can be compressed or
expanded, free content can become paid
content and paid content can be spliced
apart into free content. The same thing
is true with AI prompts and Claude
skills and other technology assets.
Every time you create a prompt or build
a system for yourself, what you're
really doing is creating an asset. And
an asset is a product. And you can do
all sorts of things with these products.
You could give them away for free as
incentives in your marketing, or you
could sell them as standalone digital
products, or you could combine them into
a more expensive, say, prompt pack, or
you could combine them into a prompt
pack and give it away for free as a
bonus inside one of your other products
or other platforms or other services, or
you can make them monthly unlocks as
part of your paid community as a
retention bonus, or you can make them
down-sells for when someone doesn't
purchase your more expensive product or
service. You see, the list goes on and
on. You can reuse these assets in a
zillion different ways. But, my point
is, anytime you build something for
yourself, you have to recognize that you
can sell your sawdust. And in the age of
AI, prompts are products.
