Today we're talking about hooks. And I've got the single greatest hook if you're trying to turn views into sales. You don't need to over complicate it. Just use this one. It crushes every time. Now, I know this works because I've personally studied thousands of videos. And in my software, we're tracking over 40,000 of the top creators across millions of their videos. This one hook format just keeps coming up as the outlier over and over. So, in this video, I'm going to break the whole thing down. What it is, five different variations for writing it, and the psychology behind it for why it works. So, well, by the way, if you don't know me, I'm Callaway. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views, and this stuff is all I do all day long. All right. First, what is it? What is this magical hook? The god tier hook for turning views into sales is called the desirebased hook. Now, here's why this is such a cheat sheet code. There are hundreds and hundreds of hook variations you could use for your videos. Some of them are really good at driving virality. Some of them are really good at driving comments, but only a few of them are really good at driving views that actually end up converting into leads and sales. And it all has to do with the psychology of the way the hook is positioned. If I had to build a business on social media and I was only allowed to use one hook, this would be the only one that I use. So here's how it works. The goal is to hook the viewer by teasing a desire they want framed by a relatable character that they see themselves in. So in the first one to two lines of the video, all you have to signal is these two things. A relatable character and their dream outcome. Now the character can be you, the creator, them, the viewer, or some third party person that's relevant and relatable to them. The dream outcome can be something the character has already done or something the character is about to do next. And in a minute, I will show you the five different ways you can tactically do this, like literally writing it out. But let me first just explain the psychology of why this works so well. This is really important. When normal viewers consume content, they're looking to be entertained. But when potential buyers consume content, they're sitting there with latent, unsolved problems in the back of their head. When they hear someone say they've achieved the dream outcome that they want, immediately their subconscious locks on and they focus in. But this is the make or break part. Once they lock in and hear that dream outcome, they will then rapidly assess how relevant or relatable the character is that has achieved that outcome. If they feel like the character is super different from them or had an unfair advantage, some condition that they cannot have, they will dismiss the dream outcome, dismiss the solution, and keep scrolling. But if they get locked on to the dream outcome and they believe the character is relatable with no crazy conditions or unfair advantages, they will be hooked 1,000%. So it's dream outcome, relatable character with minimal constraints or conditions. This is all you have to do and those views will print money. I will show you right now. For example, let's say I was a business owner and I was selling a sleepreated product and all I wanted was to make a piece of content that a viewer with sleep problems watched. They'd comment some word or click some link and then go down my funnel. That's what I'm looking for. The dream outcome I would use as the creator is a perfect night's sleep because I'm trying to signal to people that are having trouble sleeping and that want the best sleep of their life. Okay. Now, imagine you're the viewer. We're switching roles. You know you have trouble sleeping. You've tried everything. You know it's an issue. You want it solved super bad. You're scrolling. You're scrolling. You're scrolling. And then you hear and see something that says, "I just had the best sleep in my life." Immediately, boom. Subconscious is locked on. And the reason you perked up is not that the video painted your problem that you have trouble sleeping. It's that they painted the dream outcome that you want and you can imagine what it would be like if you had that dream outcome. The ultimate desire hooks people more than stating the problem directly because it's one standard deviation away and this allows them to complete the puzzle in their mind. They imagine what it would be like if they had this dream scenario. Okay, so that's the dream outcome part, but what about the character piece? Remember the example was I just got the best sleep of my life. When the viewer hears the word I, as in I the creator, they're immediately going to judge if you are relevant and relatable to them. And if you feel relatable and they trust you, they're going to be hooked. But if the next thing in the hook was, I just got the best sleep of my life using this noise machine. It's $1,200, but it's so worth it. Well, now as the viewer, you have to factor in the condition that that character was able to afford $1,200. And if you have that constraint and you can't afford $1,200, then you completely dismiss and the character is no longer relatable. So the whole game is to get a viewer to buy into the dream outcome delivered by a character that they can relate to so it feels like that outcome is achievable. It seems obvious, but I'm telling you, this hook format has a way of turning views into leads and sales way more effectively than almost anything else I've seen. And I'll show you with these examples. So, let's get tactical. These are the five specific ways that you can execute desire-based hooking and create this effect. All right. The first way of five is called about me. In this case, the character is the creator and they're describing something looking backwards that they've already done. So the template is I just accomplished X dream outcome using Y method and that Y method needs to be relatable and conditionf free. You can do that in one or two sentences. So the first example of this is this guy shot by Sammy. Let's watch it. >> I took a break from posting for almost a month and still grew by 11,000 followers. And this is why. >> Now in this hook, the dream outcome he's framing is being able to grow your social following without doing any work. And the character is him, Sammy, the creator. And in this case, he seems super relatable, like not intimidating or having access to unfair advantages in any way. To double down on this relatability, to make sure it feels constraint-free, he said, "I got this result by literally doing nothing, which brings the conditions down to zero. It's the best possible thing for someone to listen to and want to act." Now, this video based on that hook drove 2,000 leads for him. And that's because the rest of the video after that hook was him explaining the method that he used to get that dream outcome. 2,000 people wanted that method. All right. All right. Now, the next example in this category is from this creator, Cassie Skuniverse. She's really great. Sorry if I'm pronouncing your name wrong. >> I took my Instagram story views from this to this, and it took my sales from this to this. I don't care what niche you're in. If you use this one story strategy, I promise that you will increase your views and your sales. In this hook, Cassie is painting the dream outcome of being able to grow your views and sales from X to Y. And in these examples, both Sammy and Cassie are in the social media growth space, content space, but this works in every niche. Should I just grab these examples cuz I know these people. Now, again, in this template, the creator is the character. So, Cassie's the character, and she seems super relatable. If you're watching this and you're someone trying to grow your views and sales from zero, this is the kind of character that you can see yourself in. Now, again, to double down on the relatability and emphasize there's no constraints, she said, there's just one simple tactic you have to do, and then you can achieve this outcome. And this is no joke. This is one video driving thousands of leads, even if you're only converting 1 2 3% of your leads through your funnel. I mean, this is huge. And this video, this one video drove 1,600 leads. Okay, that's the first way of five you can do it about me. Let's go to the next one which is called if I. So here the creator is still the character, but now the dream outcome is looking forward. It's a hypothetical scenario. If I were able to do something looking forward. So the template for this one is if I wanted to achieve X outcome, I would use Y method. And then again, you could have a second sentence explaining the relatableness or the conditionfree way that you're approaching that method. Okay, so we're going to use Sammy and Cassie again for this and we'll have different examples after this. So this first one is from Sammy. >> Pretty confident that I could rebuild this account back to where it is right now in less than 6 months. Not by doing anything crazy, but by doing this one thing from day one. >> Here he is painting the dream outcome of a forward-looking scenario of how he would regrow from 0 to 175K in 6 months. So the dream outcome is a big social following in a short amount of time. And he's painting a scenario of how he could do that looking forward. Again, Sammy, the creator, is the character here, and he seems normal, chill. His background looks like a normal house. Nothing feels intimidating or outside the realm of what someone else could replicate. And to double down on that constraint-free condition, he said, "And I could do it not by doing anything crazy, just by doing one thing." Right? So, what a lot of these people do to make sure it's constraint-free is they will say, "And also, the method I used is super easy and one step and da da." So, if you look at them and you're like, I don't really see myself in them. Well, then that constraint-free condition framing helps double down and make you connect to it. Right? So, there's two ways you can get someone to feel like they could achieve it. One is you, the creator, the character, signaling that you are them. And two is telling them the method is so easy, so simple that they can achieve it as well. Now, this video drove a,000 leads to his workshop. One video, a thousand leads. We've so far seen three examples of like the 10 I have. All of them have driven thousands of leads. All right. The second example in this if I scenario template is Cassie again. >> If I were starting from scratch, here's exactly what I would do to turn my content into cash flow in three simple steps. >> In this video, she's painting the scenario of what she would have to do if she wanted to turn her content into cash. So, if she had to run this back like a beginner watching it, what could she do to turn content into cash? That's the dream outcome. Here, Cassie is the creator again. She looks super relatable. Looks like anyone could do this, right? That's by design. And it's not that she has lowquality content. That's very different. She has high quality polished content, but she seems relatable. She seems like you and me. And that's a really critical component in executing this conditionfree character framing. Now, to again double down and limit the conditional bias, she says in just three simple steps. She's like, I did it. So, if you feel like me, you could do it, but also if you don't feel like me, it just takes three simple steps. Anyone can do it. And of course, this video drove 3,300 leads, 3,300 leads off this one 45se secondond video. All right, so that is two of five templates. And both of those were framed from the creator's perspective. The creator is the character. Now, the next two are framed from you as the viewer's perspective. So, instead of the creator framing the character as them, they're framing it as you literally by saying the words you. So, this third template is called to you. And the actual Mad Lib goes like this. If you're trying to do X outcome, use Y relatable method. Now, the first example is actually from me, one of the short form tech videos that I made where this absolutely crushed. Let's watch it. If you want to get better at using AI, this one simple trick will make your life so much easier. Now, the dream outcome I'm framing is anyone watching getting better at using AI. And the relatable method is one simple trick. Super easy, unconditional, framed, very basic. And then the beauty is, like I said, the character here is you. If you're trying to get better at AI, it doesn't matter if you think I'm good at AI, if you're trying to get better. So, you put yourself in the frame of, "Ooh, I am trying to get better. I want to pay attention to what this is." Now, it's going to be hard to fathom, but this one video drove 21,000 leads. Literally 42,000 comments on this video, half of them were me going back. 21,000 leads. If I had a low ticket offer plugged at the back of this, it probably would have done six figures in like the first 3 days. All right, so that was number three of five. First, we talked about me, which was looking backwards. Then, we talked about if I, which is looking forwards, both framed as the characters, the creator. Then we shifted to you which is you as the subject, you as the character. Now we're going to go to number four which is also framed for you as the character. Number four is called can you? And the big difference is it's framed as a question, a hypothetical question instead of a statement for you. So here's the template. This is the Mad Lib format. Is it possible for you to achieve X outcome under Y relatable conditions? And the best example of this is from this guy Minnow Lee. He's the god of this format. He kind of pioneered Is it possible to start a business in one day and make $1,000 from it? >> So, in this example, he frames the dream outcome of being able to start a business that generates $1,000 in just one day. And here, when he frames the question, is it possible for you to start a business? He's framing the character as you, but also to make sure it's relatable. He seems just like a kid. He's waking up in his bed. Very relatable feeling mission. Now, this video, this one video drove 5 to 6,000 leads for his paid product. And I don't even need to show you more examples of this. He ran this eight times to do 24 million views and they print it every time. The reason psychologically why this is so good at driving leads is because it frames a dream outcome, gets you to buy in, explains how ex person, ex relatable person got the dream outcome, and then says if you want to do the dream outcome, too, here, take an action. All right, now we're on number five. The fifth template out of five. The first two were about the creator as the character. The second two were about you, the viewer, as the character. And this one's called he or she just did. This is about a third party that is relatable. Now, the proven hook template for this is Z character just accomplished X dream outcome under Y relatable conditions. And the first example of this working really well is my buddy Ryan 2. This creator, Lucas, just sold 10 million worth of products with his iPhone. Let me explain. Hi, I'm Lucas and this is creator marketing. So, how do you go from a broke call student to a creator founder with over 500,000 followers? Now, in this video, he paints a scene of some character, Lucas Ptor, having done $10 million in revenue for his clothing brand just off his iPhone. Now, the dream outcome here obviously is selling $10 million, having a successful business, having a successful clothing brand. The character, this guy Lucas Pctor, is framed as being able to have built this off his phone and going from being a broke college student into a successful entrepreneur, which creates a relatable condition on that character. Now, this specific video was not driving to any lead magnet. Ryan didn't have the playbook, but if he had the playbook using common activations based on his other videos, this would have driven 2 4 5,000 leads for people to want to get the same playbook that Lucas ran. So, this one doesn't have the lead proof as all the others did, but it's one of the best examples of a case study where you create relatable conditions on the character. Second example is from Ava, and she's really great at social media. >> This creator posted the same hook nine times and went viral every single time. Now, in this example, this video she's making, she's painting a scenario where a creator used the exact same video nine times and went viral all nine. And so, the dream outcome is for you as someone who makes content that you can also go viral at will if you follow this playbook. Now, the character she's talking about is implied. They're not mentioned, right? She said this creator, she's not naming them, but because she's showing nine of the exact same videos that seemingly look pretty loweffort, low edit, she's creating relatable conditions around that creator. Now, this video of course drove 2,000 leads for Ava's business. Again, crushes. So, those are the tactical five different ways you can do desire-based hooking. All them work, all them crush. There's proof of them generating thousands and thousands of leads on one video all over the place. And the reason they work so well, like I said, psychologically is when you paint a dream outcome from a relatable person and you hand them the method for having done that, people want that method. So, if you use these hooks, I guarantee you'll have a way better time at turning views into leads and sales like you want. All right, guys. That is all I've got for this video. That is the recap on desire-based hooking. If you're a business owner and you like that video, you're excited to try it, and you want more tactical insights from me, I've got three things for you below. The first, this channel is designed specifically for business owners trying to crush with content. All I do all day is figure out how can I grow businesses faster with social media and YouTube. If that's you, make sure to subscribe. I hate asking you to do it, but if you want to do it and you want that insight, make sure to subscribe. Number two, I actually built a free community specifically for people like you. It's called Wavy World. business owners trying to get better at content. We've got 65 free lessons in there, 40,000 entrepreneurs, and I'm actually going to close it down and application gate it. So, you have to be a verified business owner to get in very soon. So, if you want to get in, the invite link is below. Make sure you do that now before we close it off. And three, I rarely do this, but I'm opening a few slots to work directly with business owners in the trenches to build these content systems for them for driving views into sales. There's a lot of content gurus on the internet that don't actually know how to make content that converts. I have that skill and I like working with business owners hands-on to do that. So, if you're trying to work with me, I've got a few ways you can do that below. Check the links, but make sure to do that before the slots fill up. All right, that's all I've got for this video. We'll see you guys on the next one. Peace.