Everyone's trying to automate social media with AI. Just plug in a prompt, hit post, and watch the followers roll in. Sounds great, except it doesn't work. At least not in the way you think it will. Today, we're breaking down where AI actually helps with social media, where it's a total trap, and why X just launched Operation Kill the Bots to crack down [music] exactly on the kind of content most people are creating. Plus, we cracked profitable meta ad creatives with AI. And we'll look at some huge clawed updates, including remote control, enterprise plugins for co-work, and a new model. I'm joined as always by my co-host and co-founder of Authority Hacker, Gail Brandon. How's it going, Gail? Busy. It's like it's quite hard to keep up these days with the AI industry. It's kind of interesting though because it's changing. Um, before like last year, you'd get like a 100 product companies releasing each kind of one thing. And now we see the big AI labs releasing 100 features basically. And I think we've hit that point where um they're vive coding most of what they release. And so it's going faster and faster. And as you'll see with Entropic, there's almost one new thing a day with Entropic right now if not multiple. And it's accelerated a lot and it's kind of scary because it tells me that it's going to get faster and faster as the models get even better and uh and yeah so we are entering the area of consolidation. I think that is a good opportunity to remind people if they want to hang on and stay up to date with this stuff to subscribe to this podcast either on YouTube or your favorite podcast platform to hopefully stay up to date with some of the latest stuff here. Today I want to talk about automating social media with AI because it's probably the number one thing that people ask us or people imagine they will do when they learn these new crazy AI skills or they set up claude code for the first time or any kind of automation like how do I automate my social media? I'll just do that and get millions of followers and become a billionaire next Tuesday. Right? >> That's the doesn't quite work out like that. Why not? I mean, first of all, traffic doesn't equal money. I think people's poor business plans answer is always like, I'll get more traffic and that will solve my business. When most of the time, you need a better offer, you need a better product, you need a better everything. We've had a lot of traffic. We had hundreds of thousands of leads per month. We had all that, etc. And we had time and quite often actually there was no correlations between the traffic we would get and how much money we' make. would often make more money at times where we get less traffic and vice versa make less money because it's not just a matter of getting eyeballs. It's a matter of converting these eyeballs into customers and making them swipe their credit card. And often what gets the most eyeballs is what is the lowest like the the conversion rate is often the lowest and you're better off niching down and so on. And so that's first that's kind of like a fantasy of all the business owners. is like I want >> the case in point that if you wanted millions of followers just do prank videos on YouTube but none of those people are going to buy your [ __ ] from your >> you post about that monkey in Japan right this punch monkey I don't know if you've seen that on social media you want views like go and repost these videos you'll get millions of views really easily how much money are you going to make no money uh you're going to make nothing but like >> okay but but like so to push back on that um is it as easy as using AI to uh recreate create monkey videos or whatever to to to get views cuz like I as as I see it, it's not even that easy to get views using AI for for social media. >> I think it's pretty easy if you just pick the right topics. I think it's not like you know baby podcast video was one as well, etc. But the point is like most people they're trying to make money. They're not trying to get views like views don't pay your bills etc. And so like it either you're an account that tries to monetize with the ad system of these platforms but it's very very difficult like you'll make you know you need tens and tens of millions of views per months to consider making a small living from that. So the best way is just to run a business and get the right eyeballs and get people to convert. And that's the problem. It's like if you outsource the whole job to AI, if you ask it to both come up with ideas and create the idea and refine it, it just smells like an AI answer. Like even if the models are writing better now, they don't have the edge. they tend to not be up to date like they still rely very much on their training data. So um most of social media is like likes the fresh stuff like the stuff that just came out and those models like even when they use web search are not very good at surfacing what makes the most sense and what is the most current right now and you know it's like asking them to write a joke like they tend to be kind of terrible jokes. Um, same thing. Social media is rewarding like punchy, high impact copy and without a lot of messaging and refining. It doesn't do that much of a good job. Now, I use AI to help me with social media. Um, but I use it in a way that it works like an assistant. So, I have this close code skill where I do slo media manager. I think social manager and then I might either give it context like this podcast for example. quite often I give the transcript of the podcast and it takes my words and it knows how to repackage them like it has a library of hooks for example to stop people it knows you know the length etc and even then I I still give feedback as it builds it it's kind of like a collaborative process but it's much faster right I have it connected to my type fully as well so I can just send the post directly to the scheduleuler I can preview them >> I mean I think there's a few elements to that if if we break it down there's this like sort of support layer in social media where you're talking about kind of organizing some thoughts, drafting, maybeuling, posting, um, repurposing that, you know, thumbnails we've been doing a lot of recently as well. That kind of stuff it's helpful for, but you're saying like we're quite far away from like fully automating, you know, hey, just do social media and then suddenly your your likes, follows, and sales go up. >> Basically, if you have nothing to say and if you have nothing to add to a discussion, you're extremely unlikely to be successful by letting AI running your social media. And that's the that's that's what I think >> now just just to home in on that. So if you do have something to say like you know you have experience or whatever in your industry and you you know there's something valuable there but you just suck at >> thinking of what would make a good post remembering all your good ideas or explaining it or you know just the organization of it. Is it going to be good or you know is there something more like on the authenticity level that it it kind of erases during that process? >> I think the challenge is that when you tell AI you want to make a social media post, it by default like tries to teach something valuable to the audience >> and information is irrelevant at this point. Information is everywhere, right? It's like you can just type to a chatbot and you get a better answer than your shitty social media post unless you have like exclusive data or something. And so one thing that I found that works really well to run social media with AI is actually to tell you like we're not teaching. Nobody cares for information. Focus on emotional response. Uh get people to react to this and talk to their personal situation and how it makes you feel to talk about that thing. And then that got me a lot stronger post. Another thing that has worked quite well as well. >> Hold on. Is that not just basically rage baiting or flaming to get get a response though? >> Not always. It's like for example if I talk let's say about a new uh AI feature let's say we're going to talk about this remote thing right it's like I can talk about like oh I can connect to my code remotely but what does that mean for me for example what does that mean that mean that look I could say that often my best ideas come when I walk my dog for example uh and then like it's going to essentially talk about that and how it unlocks this for me and unlocks this for founders you're not like right now the way for most people to work is they either have a basic chatbot on their phone or they have they go on cloud code and they have like a better setup but it's kind of very much like a desk thing and that has unlocked that and so like the emotional response is like a I can finally take my best ideas that I always forget when I get home and then just capture them in my workspace on the go and that's like liberating that's not radating >> that but that's uh sharing a use case of like how >> yeah but that's how it makes me feel like it's like oh now you can like the way did the announcement post walk [laughter] like the angle the angle. No, no, no. The angle was developers can finally touch grass again. That was the angle. That was the emotional thing. It's like the feeling of touching grass. And then that's what got people to react on social media, not the feature. And that's the idea. It's like if you tell the model to think about what this means emotionally for people, it will craft better models. >> I understand. But there's kind you're interweaving two points there, right? Because if I'm reading your social media and you're like, "Oh, I can use the remote thing while I'm walking the dog in the morning." >> Yeah. >> Um, you know, and that makes me feel great or happy or whatever. It's like, I don't really give a [ __ ] how it makes you feel. I'm like, my takeaway from that, my practical takeaway is, oh, there's a new feature I maybe hadn't heard about, and here's a use case for how I can implement that when I walk my dog. >> That's fine. But the way it's going to work is the people who are in the same pain as you are going to react to that post because they react, they like it, they feel more strongly about it. This is going to enhance its distribution and then reach more people. Whereas if you focus on like here's a feature like people will not like because they don't feel something, they're not going to click the like button. They're not going to do the engagement actions as much. >> I understand. But I'm just saying that the difference is from here's everything you can do to here's what I did with this. >> It sure but like what matters is engagement. Like if you you want answer from here to walk, you need engagement. You don't get engagement by making a message that talks to everyone. You get engagement by writing a message that talks to a small group of people that feel very strongly about what you wrote. these people trigger high engagement and that triggers distribution of that post because the networks is uh and so like it's kind of counterintuitive. You write for a smaller group of people and that's kind of like what the model doesn't get. And so like the way I've got my best posts is by niching down talking to the emotion of that small group of people having them react and engage more strong comment like oh my god I had this problem I hated this etc. Oh finally etc. like people would not do that on like just a feature but it's like it works better with storytelling that's kind of the point of content right content is now storytelling wrapped in value wrapped in storytelling rather >> I feel as well that when a lot of people are kind of getting into social media automating or using AI in social media they kind of look at the you know Gary V's or Mr. beast or like you know these really like the people at the very top of an industry and they're like how do I get there when actually saying like well you know everyone talks about niching down like why don't I just try and become you know like king of this like small little castle over here rather than the whole industry and that's a much more realistic way of approaching it >> I mean that's kind of what I do on Twitter so like my Twitter is quite active like for example what I do is like I post videos of like our workflows when we release them and I show the output I show the like and again you can see the hook is is very much on the emotional I spent 3k pounds I got 19k back I didn't even review a single ad before launching a little bit exaggerated we did review them a little bit but playing the platform here that's kind of the point and the point is like this is here to trigger emotions and then we go and then it's like it's how does it feel like old way you hire an agency takes week new way you do that and then after that you get into the value how it works what ad formats we got etc but I needed to earn your attention through emotion first and I did that and so the point is like people read this sometimes they don't read the rest of the post and then they watch the video but I need to earn six minutes of their time which is not easy and so and that's the point and you can see this post has 1k like 122,000 views 2.6k 6k saves and 200 comments or something. Um, >> and you used AI to write that completely. >> Yeah, but the video is me. Obviously, the video is like I I recorded a loom, but the point is that the copy here is meant to trigger an emotional response so I can buy six minutes of your time. Um, and so emotion above the fold, details for people who want the details after that, and storytelling. And then the actual how and the technical breakdown comes later in the video in the link in whatever you share basically because people are saturated with teaching. They don't care for teaching. I mean this one was like money so it's easy but I have some that are not money uh like if I post um I think I posted the one on yeah on topical map right? It's like I built an SEO consultant inside code. So, this is not money like just because this is a harder one harder one to it didn't do as well as you can see like it only got 34,000 views and almost 500 likes still decent. Um, but the point is again it's like it kind of went the same way of like all the way new way and then it's like I built an SEO consultant inside code is interesting because it appeals to the fact that AI has reached human level. Uh, and it's like oh are we there yet? And it's the curiosity, the emotional reaction here is like, is this really as good as a consultant? Is this guy full of [ __ ] Is this another ex [ __ ] post or is this real? And so that's the point. It's like, and then the way I ground this is like I actually use data from the tools you respect like data for SEO and HFS. Uh, and then the first frame of the video is here to show the output. It shows like the, you know, interactive topical map. And the idea is that again, I'm here to every first touch point is here to buy more of your time. And then as I retain you, that is metrics that creates distribution for social media for example. And so again, this this copy was written by AI. It wasn't me who wrote this. >> Yeah. And that but that's my point like you can use AI to do this. It's not like it's not a barrier. It's just the way people initially try and use AI to do social media is usually wrong. >> Yeah. And you need to create stories and you need to create things that stop the scroll. So like you need to find the like, you know, if I'm like here's a keyword research like nobody cares. Like nobody's going to stop. like you have to kind of like storyt tell around it and the storytelling is like this is now SEO consultant level and then the the emotional reaction is like is this guy full of [ __ ] or is this real and it works very well again talking about emotional reaction when you create content where there's two sides to it where people are for against it because what that does is it gets people to comment and fight in the comments and so on like ah this is nowhere near as good as what I would do or like oh my god this is amazing no you're like obviously you guys are terrible at SEO if you think this is good, etc. The point is like that's what social media is [laughter] today and and that triggers reactions and that gets people to react basically. And so >> you you've had some experiences uh maybe not quite so recently but you know in the past few months where you were like a I'm going to stop uh posting on X cuz like the AI content that I'm doing there is like not good. >> Um like what was causing that at the time? >> It was not enough of me like not enough. Like the point is these videos here they like they are real. >> Were you like tell us what you were doing to create the content there? Was it like just fully automated or were you not? >> Yeah, I would take this podcast for example and then I would just uh like I would post I would not be critical enough of the output of AI and post too many posts that would underperform and then obviously the average reach that you get and the average performances that you get they depend on like your past performances. So if you stop like posting lower quality content that doesn't trigger engagement then you lose that engagement >> and is that do you think that's like a symptom um or a cure so to speak like you know is the human in the loop quality layer because you could argue that that's relevant whether it's AI generated or human generated or you know if you have an assistant or something helping you with it like it's it's still like who's deciding if good shit's going out on my social media or not. It's really taste, right? And it's also obviously as more like as other creators are also figuring out this and getting better, the bar rises, right? And so you're fighting. >> You can also learn from them because they're essentially sharing what works. >> Yeah. So my skill actually what it does is every week I run it and it runs a scrapes all my posts for that week and it has a little note takingaking system where it just learns from what has worked and what has not worked and it updates its documentation. So even if the platform changes, it kind of adapts as well. Like things that used to work and don't work anymore, it learns from that and so on. And so that's kind of >> you essentially created a a skill in clawed code to scrape your own social media on a weekly basis and create qualitative review or do you look at like data likes and engagement and things like that? >> Yeah, it looks at likes, engagement, saves, repost, etc. And can you give us an example of some of the insights that it might give you in a week like you know this type of post does well or like what is >> I think it's mostly around what doesn't work. So like for example like this one was just like the the new model and just like an emoji. This is not AI generated. I didn't I didn't need AI to come up with this but it will see like this is underperforming for example. So it's like it would be like ah there was no value added wasn't that good etc. Same with this one. I tweeted either me or Opus 4.6 6 is getting dumber already and that was like two days before sunet 4.6 is really like is this that and then sometimes it works. So it's like it's quite tricky. So for example, yesterday I tweeted I tweeted this like you know code released this kind of remote control and I said this is open CL for grown-ups and this was uh short and snappy but again before because they would be for and against people [laughter] and that triggers an emotional reaction versus like oh here just a new model boom 140 likes 22 comments 24K impressions and so and so like it's going to see that be like okay you can do short and snappy post but you need to have some kind of duality in your content. so that it triggers engagement basically. >> So it sort of reminds me of the whole like you know social media influencer boxing matches or any kind of like rivalry or like dividing people into camps like it just gets attention and that's kind of what they live off of. It's you're kind of doing the same thing here in a way. >> I'm trying to keep it classy like um I do play a bit on it. So for example this image here that I put like the people who are the the keep for people like they're crazy basically. Uh, and so like I kind of like made that image and I just added this little keep for here I think thing. And actually didn't get I mean it didn't get that many for people in the comments. I expected to get hundreds because last time I did I got hundreds of people telling me that for is basically their husband or something like this. >> They've all you now. [snorts] >> Yeah, I actually deleted a tweet because I literally I started getting harassed from this literally. The point is you can you just do these little winks or whatever to just trigger engagement and that just works. And again, perfect meme for like, you know, pro open glow people and just like other people trigger again triggers emotional reaction 140 likes, 7.6K reach. Um, and yeah, I I can get quite a bit of traffic using that. I just works repeatedly as you can see. And I mix one thing that's quite important is if all my content is kind of like AI generated from the scale, my engagement is going to go down. I need to mix these kind of like hot takes that are not AI generated, just me [ __ ] posting basically. And that I feel adds some kind of level of authenticity to what you do and that gets you a lot more reach. So if you that's what I was saying earlier which is like if you try to go all AI it goes down the toilet. You need to have some level of effort but you can reduce the level of effort you have significantly by having AI help you package things for you. So, can you kind of talk us through or walk us through start to finish like an idea comes to your head and then you're creating a social media post? Like what are all the steps? Uh what's automated and what's you? >> Yeah. So, I mean, let's just open VS Code and just show you. >> Um so, this is VS Code. I've shown it before. Uh >> this is where you run code. Yeah. >> Yep. So, I'm running in by pass function is just faster. And I just do like social manager and I just say something. So, I'll say uh let's talk about let's make a post about how this new remote code allows me to finally uh vibe code outside and my best ideas are when I work for example. Um so I'm just going to do that. So I would just dictate I'd be like so cloud code just released a new feature where you can connect to your terminal on your computer from the code app and it's very nice because I get my best ideas when I walk my dog and I'm outside and I'm not staring at my screen and so I would like to kind of convey that while sharing that this new feature exists. I want to focus on you know being like how I feel about it and how useful this is even though it's a small thing. And then I want to kind of like create a bit of duality in saying that this is why most people installed open claw and now the gap is closing. So it's basically open claw for grownup and serious people. So I'm just going to say that I'm just going to make sure like the transcription for open claw might be oh it actually did okay and it just says cloud code every time. So that's the only thing I need to fix. So I'll just fix that and I'll just do it once. And what is going >> software are you using there? I'm using Mac Whisper. Um, it's like Whisper Flow without the subscription. So, I hate subscriptions. So, >> price. Yeah. >> Um, so if we go actually in the social manager, you will see that it has a bunch of stuff. It has like references. >> This is a skill file that you've created before based on stuff that works. >> Yeah. So, it has like formulas of hooks for example like how to like it I scraped some competitors and then as it learns it just updates his documentation like you can see it has the learnings document that I was mentioning, right? uh like like high bookmark equals reference value post with the highest bookmark ratio practical SEO workflow/com 2.3x average generational urgency million entrepreneur like it just takes notes and it just it use it refers to that so now it gave me three angles to cover this so it could be a >> decision you've programmed it to give you three options because it doesn't always like hit the mark the first time >> yeah so it's like uh so I can be like uh surprised that there's this new feature We start with the contrarian essentially start with the open close angle like the number one reason people installed open code just became obsolid I think that's a very good one that will trigger all the open club people and then cl code just added something small that changes everything for how I use it so if I wanted to be a bit more genuine I would do that if I want the highest performance 100% that's going to be the two actually so let's do that >> you told it to do number two >> and then it's going to go and write the full post based on >> and so one thing that I discovered when I created this scale is that when I actually ask the main thread of clo code to write if I ask it to write multiple posts like sometimes I do multiple posts let's say from the podcast they kind of all look the same if I ask it to write in the same thread like it learns from the previous ones so I've actually taught it to use sub agents so it starts like a new fresh context code sub agent for each post so you can see it made a test >> so they don't influence each other you mean >> exactly so otherwise I would try to do some long ones some short ones and so on and then they would all end up being the same length uh and that would This is another reason why if you're doing like one long chat thread in chat GPT to write all of your social media content, it eventually all sounds the same. So >> yeah, so just wrote me a draft for example, it put cloud or something. I don't know. The number one uh reason people install cloud cloud was to use code from uh open class sorry was use code from their phone. Entropy just shifted that natively quietly was walking my dog uh this morning had an idea for a workflow. pulled out my phone and ran it in Clo right there on the sidewalk. No open CL, no tunneling, no setup. It just worked. Uh I've been saying this for a while. Close keeps quietly absorbing the features. People build entire products around open CL is cool. I get the hype. But if you're installing third party tool mostly to get mobile access, that's something anthropic is actively building. So it's like okay, but could be better. So I'd say like the kind of stuff that I like to do is like make it more authentic, for example. um less perfect and the point is you don't want to sound like AI. Uh and so I almost have it introduce clunky language sometimes. >> So when you say less perfect, is that basically saying like don't write like AI like make some human mistakes or >> Yeah. You see how I speak. I have a lot of speech patterns and so on that AI would never use because that would be better. Uh and so like it gave me a version here was walking my dog this morning. had an idea for a workflow, pulled out my phone and just ran it right there from the sidewalk. Didn't even think about it until after because it didn't update this one. So, I can see uh that's the thing. So, yeah, you can see it's a little bit more a little bit more raw. Uh and that tends to be better. So, if I like this one like I actually have it connected to type. So, I be like cool it up in type and it's going to >> So, type is the scheduleuler that you use. >> Yeah. And then it will just basically send it through the scale. It's going to load the skill and it's going to send the draft. Uh, and I could tweak it if I wanted there. But yeah, that's it just helps me transform a thought into an okay post. And then maybe I would attach the video of the announcement or attach maybe a screenshot of my terminal like again to make it feel authentic and then that's it. And just to challenge you then, like that post you have created right there, um how would you rate that on like a one to 10 scale um relative to your >> I think it needs a little bit of publishing still, but I think the hook would get a lot of reactions because >> So what is that like a six out of 10, five out of 10 or like needs more? >> The rest of the content is probably like a six out of 10 and the hook is like an eight out of 10 which is everything. And the reason why is because what's going to happen is the open CL people be like, "Oh, I didn't just install open CL for talking to my phone. It does all these other things that close code can do, etc. Reaction distribution." Um, and again, yeah, and then people who are for people who are against. So really, that's the thing. It's like the hook is 80% of your post. Like, >> yeah, >> the rest of what you write, like the hook and the visual are everything. This is just filler, but at the same time, you're sharing an update. And we shared it in a way that, as I said, was a little bit emotional and would have engagement from some people. Now, this is slightly confrontational, not even that much, to be honest. It's fair. Um, and it's all about you can do these things while not being a complete [ __ ] on social media. It's all about, you know, gauging uh how far you can go and how far you're happy to go. Mhm. >> Okay, let's talk about uh replies now, specifically auto replies because that's been in the news this week. Twitter or X has got this operation kill the bots thing going on. Like what is the fundamental problem here? What are you seeing on social media here? >> I mean this is the head of the product of X that said like in 90 days all channels will be full spam basically. Um, and the problem is that people uh people who are very lazy, they auto reply on threads, complete useless stuff as well. Like I'll open one of my thread and it works on LinkedIn as well, etc. And these are >> I hate it on LinkedIn because they've got they like pre-populate replies and like you can just see everyone's put zero effort into the replies >> because they didn't. It's fully automated. >> Yeah. >> Uh it's like this is an automated reply. It just repeats what I said in the post and say, "Oh my god, this is great." Uh, and again, this is this fantasy of like, oh, if I get rich, if people see my stuff, like, he got 68 impressions from this, uh, I'm going to be rich. Um, but who the [ __ ] is going to follow this guy because he responded something that literally has no value. Um, this is also >> how many followers does he have? >> Like, >> 63. Um, and and again, it's like, you see, he has his the CTAs here and what he's doing is like if I go and check his replies, I'm sure there's like a gazillion replies everywhere. you can see he's a reply boy, you know. Um, that's what these people do. They just have these things running and it just ruins it. So, it's like, yeah, sure, I have 200 comments, probably 100 plus in here. Uh, there are like some real ones, but it's like there's a lot of AI going on. And that's that's the thing. Same this one. I mean, this one is super obvious. AI image, AI everything. Uh, and it's like automated reply. >> And are they trying to like sell some? They just try to get like residual traffic basically and uh and get respond like get people to click on their profile and then they will like try to sell you something on their profile or like yeah that's not this one is not even that good but they probably warm them up and then when they reach enough reach they just add some CTAs but that's that's a big problem and don't do that it does nothing for your business. So they they've been trying to stop this though because they uh recently in this operation kill the bots uh they restricted in the API if I'm right um your ability to programmatically reply where you're not not mentioned on all but the enterprise or above plans which I think start like 50k a month. So that should stop people doing this and >> still happening. I I mean no you can still do it through browser automation. um use a very cheap AI model that operates a browser and it's done. You know, it's less efficient and so on, but if you use a cheap enough model, like it people will still do it. Um and that's why these responses are [ __ ] and just repeat what you say because they are the cheapest models. Okay, great. Uh let's talk about meta ads now because we have I would say somewhat successfully managed to automate I know we're talking about not automating social media but like automate ads on social media profitably. So, you want to tell us uh you want to tell everyone how we did that? >> Yeah. I mean, again, it's I think it's different to automate ads and to automate social media. Uh >> they want you to uh make more ads and pay for them, right? So, they're kind of not trying to block you in quite the same way at least. >> And also, your interest is aligned with the platform, which is like you want to create ads that engage people and make money. If not, you're losing money, so why would you bother? Um so, I think it's a little bit different. And an ad is is kind of like a billboard, right? It doesn't need to always be uh extremely a deep thought or something like that. It just needs to have one message and send people to your landing page. And so it's a lot less bad to do that. And so what I've done is I've created a skill and actually um before this podcast, I actually decided to run it on a product that many people know. I run it on uh Headspace, the meditation app. um just to be like you know on a decent product what can we get out of it and what I really like is uh these are the ads they generated actually uh this one is pretty good for example uh the what I really like is it actually lifts off the branding so headspace brand color is orange uh it always lifts off the branding and reuses it while keeping the templates uh now the way I built this ad skill so let's actually go and check it out it's called meta campaign this one here is in the assets. I created a list of like uh templates and it's it it's >> good that you use for inspiration. >> So I just got all of these uh these before after etc and I trained the model to understand what these formats are and how they work and you can add your own if you want. you can just create a folder and add them. And so it does that. But what's really cool is um when you run it, it actually role plays as the user of the app and it tries to understand what their problems are. So you see for Headspace for example, which is a meditation app, the personal was a stress professional 20 to 45 at the burnout point. And what specific problem does this solve for me? I can't turn my brain off. The simplest way to do it, I lie in bed at 1:00 a.m. and my mind is still running through tomorrow's to-do list. replaying conversations from a meeting that went sideways worrying about the deadline that I know I'm going to miss. I wake up at 6:00 already exhausted. Like it actually is pretty good. [laughter] >> You know, it's like imagine it's like a therapy session from your ideal customers. >> I think that concept of like roleplaying there is probably uh you know applicable in in many other applications. It's one of my best uh marketing tricks is to have AI role play as the customer and then that gives you keywords that gives you ad angles that gives you ways to solve the problem and so on. So it does it does all of that. It interviews me as well. You see it asked me a bunch of questions. So these are like who's the target audience who's the competitive landscape. I didn't go too deep because I don't run this app. It did a competitive analysis. So it actually uh found the current ads that Headspace is running and learned from that as well. found all their social proof. Urgency tactic try for $0 always available free trial like it just mind stuff for me. It also downloaded some visuals like their logo and then this stuff to do that and I did some market research because it has all these formats. It just combines it all together and it made uh it made three adsets so you can like feel like yourself was like the first one. Uh it wrote the copy sleep tonight, focus tomorrow. You know, we talked about the the customer feeling sleepless, etc. Like, that's pretty good. Calm in five minutes, not five months. Your brain deserves five minutes. Feel like you again. That's decent. And then it's made to be coupled with this one. Not not the best to be honest. But this one seems pretty good. My partner told me I seem less intense. That was after two weeks of Headspace. Uh 4.7 star. Again, probably a real problem that came out through the roleplay. 14 days for you. You feel like yourself again. Try headspace free. Like simple ad, but it works. did this chat one as well. Like you seem way less stressed lately. What changed? Love. Honestly, headsp space the meditation up. Really? I know. I know. But five minutes before bed and I'm actually sleeping through the night for the first time in months. Okay, send me a link right now. And I love that. For example, it keeps the capital letters and so like, you know, it feels like a real text. >> These are these types of ad formats that like they just work because they don't feel like ads. So people pay attention to them more, right? And sort of stops the scroll. So some of them are more generic like this and some of them like it tests that. That's the point. That's the idea. It's like create it uses different concepts. We have this one that is didn't fail. So it's like you didn't ah because the angle was like ah I tried meditation apps before and didn't work basically. So you didn't fail at meditation. Meditation isn't what you think. 3 minutes no change. No BS. Try again different this time. Uh and then yeah you didn't fail meditation. Meditation failed you. Has a little headsp space one. Meditation isn't what you think. missed like you know 30 minutes, 3 minutes etc. handwriting things meditation isn't clearing your mind chanting 30 minutes woo woo what it is three minutes of noticing your thoughts on your couch actually backed by science headsp space try free this and that um so yeah I think we've kind of nailed it and it's really nice because you can just keep running it with different prompts and different angles that you have through your mind you can talk to the model and we just combine all this data this research and it works like an agency it replaces an agency for me because you can just talk to it about your high level thing you give it your landing page it just does it for And the images are actually Nano Banana Pro that's driving that. Yeah, >> they cost they cost 17 cents per image. Um, so like this run was like two and a half $3. Um, plus >> Yeah, but I mean like if you hired an ad agency or something to do that, it'd be thousands. >> I I challenge you to find a cheaper ad agency. Um, yeah. And we've been running ads like this. Obviously, this version of this is actually is a better version than the one that we run and we still managed to be profitable on it actually. >> Yeah. at like quite significant return on ad spend for a marketing campaign we did uh last month. >> If you're listening to the audio version of this, go over to the YouTube version and look at this because they are actually very very impressive. And if you want this skill right now, it's actually available inside the AI accelerator, which is our course community program that helps business owners and marketers automate stuff in a high quality way. Um, so we've been releasing a ton of uh skills over the last month. There's stuff in there for building out topical maps. Um, you just did one today actually or yesterday for creating like long form SEO content. Um, >> there's one that's connecting to your Google search console as well and essentially will fix your site and fix your issues. Uh, we have one coming up on social media. We have a bunch basically. So, it's like I will actually make a version of my skill for social media that works for most people. Uh, that's going to come out. I have one that connects to analytics that's coming out as well. I've been playing with carousels as well. It's not perfect yet, but it's almost there. So, we'll show it in the next episode. I want to show everything now. >> Okay, awesome. But if you want that right now, it's available. So, you can go and literally sign up um on the standard plan or if you want to apply for the plus tier, G and I actually run a weekly group call with our plus tier members as well. Um, and so you can actually like chat to us and get early access to a bunch of this stuff, see what we're building and just kind of get the latest latest as it comes out about what's happening in the world of AI and and automation. So that's an option as well. Hope to see some of you uh in there. Uh, let's get back though and talk about the remote control feature in Claude Code because you sent me a message this morning at like 6:00 a.m. uh like, "Hey, this is uh this is available. You need to set this up now." And I was lying in bed and now I'm thinking were you out walking your dog at that time like using to send that or was this okay >> I actually yeah because I'm 1 hour ahead so it's like yeah maybe actually >> what does it do and is this just as you said before like a response to open claw >> I don't think it's just a direct response to open claw I think uh they have better plans but the point is cloud had cloud code on the mobile already but it would connect to github and the problem is like for example if you have mcps or custom skills set up. They may not be working uh through that cloud environment. But now what you can do is you can create a direct connection between the cloud app on your phone and the terminal on your computer that has all your work set up. So uh you just run a command on your terminal which is a remote control and it just stays on like you need your computer to stay on. So there's a even if you're on a MacBook there's a way for it to not sleep as long as it's plugged in. And uh and then when I write on my phone it creates these new threads on the cloud app and I can talk to it and just essentially talk to my terminal from there. So, it's like I don't know if I can show you, but like I have this ah I don't think you can see. [laughter] No, you cannot see. >> No, but there's this remote control session and then I can just talk to it on my phone. Uh, and it will just talk to my computer. So, yeah, I can walk my dog. >> You have to leave your computer on so it like doesn't sleep um for that to to work. >> There's an option on Macs. If you go in the battery settings on advanced, you can say uh keep it on even if the screen is off. And if your MacBook is plugged, then it doesn't use your battery at all. It's not like your battery is going to degrade from this. It's just running on power directly. So, you can do that. Or if you have a Mac Mini, it's the same thing. And that's why I said it's a response to Open Glow because people run it on Mac minis and always on computers and you kind of need the same setup here to do the same thing. >> Oh, let's move on now. Talk about another anthropic story. So, they released Sonnet uh 4.6. So, this is their mid-tier model. Uh, slightly less powerful than Opus, but also quite a bit cheaper. So, it comes in in API costs, uh, $3 in, $15 out versus Opus, which is $5 in, $25 out. Uh, and it's also available on the free plan, which is quite interesting. >> Yeah. And it's good actually. Like, it's almost at the level, like I put the benchmarks here, but it's almost at the level of uh, Opus 4.5, which was, you know, everyone's favorite model over Christmas. Um, >> I had a look at arena.lm, which is the new name for LLM Arena, uh, which basically ranks these [snorts] models, and it was actually the third best model for coding on Arena LM. >> Still good. >> Uh, above Opus 4.5 and above GPT 5.2 only below Opus 4.6. >> Yeah, it's it's a good model. >> It's not like like it's kind of like for the high level planning and so on. So if you go to like um for example novel problem solving you can see it's quite a bit below opus. So you can see we go from 58.3 with sonet to 68.8 on opus. So it's a pretty big difference. But on office tasks for example it performs pretty much on par. Um so it's like when I used in cloud code it's like there's a there's a mode called opus plan. So if you type /opus plan it will use opus for planning when you're in plan mode and sonet for everything else. And the good thing is like okay API price >> that that's to stop you like running out of tokens in your in your windows. >> That's where I was going to go. It uses your limits much slower if you use a clo plan and so you'll just get more usage and it's a good model. >> Anyone can just type /opus plan and it does that or is that a special thing you've set up? >> No. Okay. You just type it. It's just a hidden command on cloud code. Um, and it makes sense when Sonet is close enough to Opus. Like before, like Opus would be quite far ahead of Sonet. So you'd feel the drop in quality. But now that they're close enough, it's kind of nice to use the best model to plan your task still. And then when the plan is well detailed, like the a model like Sonet 4.6 can follow it quite well. And then you you get like 20 to 30% more usage out of your code plan. >> So is Sonnet then just a distilled version of of Opus? Is that how they're creating this model? >> That's that's what it is. Yeah. Uh actually I had it on artificial analysis, right? You can actually see uh the new Gemini 3.1 is very smart on paper. It's horrible to use. We didn't talk about that, but it's it's not good. But uh yeah, it is the third smartest model while still being cheap enough. What's quite interesting though is it's quite expensive to run if you use it on the API. So if we actually scroll down all the way to price which is going to be here you will see that actually the price difference between Opus and Sonet despite the price on API if you use the API is only like 15 20%. Um even though it's much cheaper and the reason why is because it burns a ton of tokens uh if you thinking and reasoning basically takes longer to get to the same results. >> It uses more tokens than Opus. So even though the tokens on opus are more expensive >> because it uses a larger number of tokens, it's not as far. You can see like the same even opus 4 4.5 was cheaper to run than set 4.6 for the same task. So if I was paying for API for example, opus 4.5 might be my peak over sonet for some tasks that require high reasoning. Um, so if you work on APIs on uh NA10, etc., that kind of stuff, that something to consider as well is that the price, the sticker price on the models gives you no idea of how much it's actually going to cost anymore because they use such a varying range of reasoning tokens. Uh, but still in the chat app, I love it. It's my new default chat model uh on the go or for quick questions and so on. It's good enough. It uses the tools perfectly. It's quite smart and it doesn't destroy your limits. >> Okay. And another anthropic news item this week. They really are going all out with uh told you every day at the at the moment. Um so they had a big enterprise uh announcement presentation. So inside co-work which is the let's say normies version of cloud code inside the the cloud app. They released plugins but they are now allowing enterprise users to create internal plugins for their teams. So you can essentially build a uh plugin, a skill as you will uh and have your team or employees in an enterprise environment use that. >> Um >> what's your reaction to this? >> That was a common complaint from uh a lot of accelerator members who have teams like they want to create these plugins and scale and they want to distribute them to people and now they finally introduced a way to do that easily within a company which is super nice. uh is going to make people use it even more and I think like >> just just to explain something here for those who aren't. So the skill is literally just a file or a folder with some text files in it or some >> some Python scripts. Yeah. >> And you can just like you know copy paste that send it to someone you know we give them away to people in the accelerator. So that's not the problem. It's when you do that you have you have two different versions of it. So when you update yours it doesn't update elsewhere. And there there are some workarounds kind of with like um GitHub that you can do, but it's quite complex to set that up. Um so they basically made this really easy to do. >> Yeah, it's like I can see like to be honest like I would imagine companies contacting me for example and be like can you set up skills for our whole team now? It's super easy to deploy to people and you can build like workflows that are deployable. You can control who has access to it. If you update it updates for everyone seamlessly they don't think about it. So like the person in legal that's using that that workflow or that marketer or whatever I update my metadata right so they can't accidentally update it the wrong way and affect other users as well. Yeah, I can imagine. I can see consultancy for this is going to explode like you want to make money with AI like learn like do that setup for companies and then just mix training and building workflows for people through the whole like like code consultant is going to be a thing now. I think they're winning enterprise just with this. It's it's simple enough but it's powerful enough that it's really good actually and co-op >> quite a cool example in their presentation that they did. There's a video on their site as well where there's like an enterprise company that's like losing sales and then they need to kind of react to that analyze all the they use a skill to a plugin rather to analyze all the data from like their sales force or email the contacts across their company and then present uh make this into a spreadsheet and then make that spreadsheet into a PowerPoint deck for management and then it goes to uh legal and there's a whole like discussion framework there about their negotiations and it creates tasks to send out to their or to action for their potential clients and um yeah, everyone's sort of living happy happy after that. I I mean I think that's >> good marketing. >> It's good marketing. It certainly seems like a cool example. I think it might take a little while for bigger organizations to actually implement all that. That's not a a simple thing for slow moving. >> They're going to spend big money on that do like I think that like there's there's a lot of consulting gigs like for that. like you can become like an enterprise skill uh consultant/cloud deployment consultant plus training and it's like I think you can charge big big bucks for that. It's like now it's like the gain for companies is massive. They don't know how to use it. >> Uh and co-work I used it with a customer that I had a consulting call with this week and it's better than I thought actually. Um it's like I what I really liked is like you know what we really like in cloud code is like you create the skill but then you can tell it to update its own scale as it works for your personal skills at least. You can do that in co-work too. Um, and it it has like the agentic vi vibe of cloud code, but for the people who will never open VS code because that's just too complicated for them and you know they they work in an office and you know it's for devs. Um, co-work is in my opinion by the end of this year is going to be used by a lot of people. Um, and I think that's the next wave. I can see entropic like oh we already won coding like everyone's running after entropic on coding and now they're like we need another massive market to justify our valuation which is knowledge work and uh and they're really kind of ahead on that right now you can do it on codeex you can do it you could do it also on terminal for other CLI and stuff but they're still way ahead and it's way easier and they I'm afraid actually that the competition is is so blindsided with coding and catching up that they're not realizing that entropy is taking that whole other market right now and there's no competition there's like tragic cannot do that. Not even close. Uh Google, no it's not Gemini is not Gemini is not a good model to start with. So So it's >> like Google Google's approach really is like they just assume or they want to pretend like they know everything about you whereas Claude Antropics very much like >> it discovers that it works, you know, >> you create the thing. Yeah. >> And and it's like Yeah. Google's products are just too fragmented. Nothing talks to each other. Um whereas code is like within the app you have the chat the co-work and you have code and you can do all of it in one place which is really really quite powerful. Um so I think that's the way to be honest they're winning and I'm scared for the competition right now. I'm scared entropy is going to become very expensive because the competition is doing such a bad job. >> I was having a look at the Salesforce share price uh and it's down like 27% or something this year. It's like uh and a lot of these big uh like traditional enterprise uh software tools the valuations are down because I think there's like real risk that you know they're they're just not after some of this. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> The it happened in a legal like a cloud released like a skill a legal skill that like reviews legal documents >> and it was so good that it w like the investors got scared. wipe 285 billion off the stock market for all these kind of like old software legal companies that do most of that work, but they don't do it as good as like a markdown file of 200 lines. Um, and that's pretty much it, right? They just like imagine decades of development replaced by a smart model and a 200 line instruction. >> I mean, I mean, it's not the 200 lines, it's the model that's really driving that. But yeah, I take your point. And uh and so like yeah, Entropic is now that's kind of the joke on Twitter right now is like Entropic is destroying entire industries daily with their updates and and they're winning. It's like uh we might get GT 5.3 tomorrow at the time at which we're recording. So probably at the day we release this podcast. I'm hoping it's good because otherwise I I have little hope for the competition. >> Uh and we actually have another Claude story because that apparently wasn't enough. Um we're not sponsored, I promise you. Clog desktop. You reckon it is now the best vibe coding app? >> Yeah, it's actually decent. It's quite buggy still. You can see they're vi coding the app. But this is what it looks like. I kind of like made a I made it make a website like in one shot. It's missing the images etc. But the point is this looks a lot like you know lovable or something like this. You can just talk to it and then most importantly you can click on the website. So let's say I want to change this headline for example. I can uh click on this button here and I can start selecting elements. I click it adds the thing and I'm like uh change text to hello Mark and in principle it should be able to go and edit the code for me and do that. So it's like it's still kind of like local code and you still need to connect GitHub and it's not perfect and so on but now you can see that it just did it. Now the point is you can actually visually develop on this is the cloud desktop app right this is like my chat and like you know if I click here it loads the chat and so on. So like it's quite powerful. Uh I think uh it's yeah it's really quite good and you'll be able to vibe code uh using the code desktop. Now I will say I've had quite a few bugs with the preview and so on. It doesn't you can see I clicked around it kind of disappeared and so on. Maybe if I click here. Yeah you can see there's some bugs. If I click it disappears sometimes. I need to tell it to fix it. I think once they iron the bugs, there's no point for a tool like Loverable or something like this because it's literally the same interface with your subscription with your same closed subscription that you're using and you can just dev push directly to GitHub open in VS Code if you want or whatever and uh and you have your plan mode you have everything. Um so yeah code code desktop app >> is this kind of the reality of what we're seeing when we hear about uh this discussion where everyone saying like you know all the model companies the anthropic um >> yeah Gemini they eat everything else is that what we're seeing with our own eyes here >> yeah and because now they hit a point and you can see it's a little bit buggy so you can see it was vibe coded quickly um but yeah now the development cycle is so fast because AI does most of the work not the best ones at using it that you know if you have an AI tool startup idea if it becomes too good it will take us a week it will take them a week sorry to copy you and take it from you uh and because of their distribution and because when you use entropic within the like code within their surfaces within their app and so on you pay a lot less if you pay for API prices it's a lot more expensive you can't compete um they they essentially have their model at an 80% discount and they eat all your margin or there's no way you can compete unless you have a model that is competitive against their model. And that's kind of the the scary part. One of the reasons we're not going and building a SAS right now is because I mean that's what I believe. I believe that it's everyone's idea. You know, the same way as like when we started having text models, people were like we're going to make 10,000 blog posts and that's going that we're going to get so much money and so much traffic. Where are these people? Like they don't see them. Uh there are a few people who got some traffic temporarily but nothing that holds. And that's kind of the idea. If you get some traction, you get someone like you get a company with deeper pockets, better infrastructure, just take what you have. >> Kind of feels like uh the whole Amazon thing where they just looked at everyone making money selling products on their platform and then just made a a cheaper version and like out, you know, out optimized them on their own platform. Except there's like no physical barriers to doing this. So they could just like, you know, in days or even hours like recreate many businesses here. >> But it's not even that. They can even have agents that monitor the market and mind this and just build them and then they just literally just review it once it's built. Like they don't pay for the I mean they pay for the model but they pay the cost of running it which is very low like when you buy API you pay for the R&D and so on. But this this is not it doesn't cost them much to run a ton a ton a ton of tokens um to observe the internet observe what you do come up with ideas brief this feature and build it. Um, and I'm sure they started doing that already. That's why we're getting daily releases. And we're getting, it's almost like the very early days of self-improvement loops where the model builds the model and the product. Um, I started seeing that with the skills I build as well. Like my skills now self-improve over multiple iterations for like an hour or two and then I I go check them out for the first time. Basically, yeah, we're we're hitting very very early uh self-improvement loops that are doable with these models. It's still not perfect. It was still kind of go to [ __ ] if you keep running it forever and lose value uh like marginal value of an extra run is very low eventually, but it's happening. >> It's interesting just thinking back to the start of this episode, we were talking about like, you know, creating social media content and authenticity and and all that stuff. Do you think they'll have similar problems when like replicating business? Instead of making a social media post, it's like replicating a business. Like how do we how do we make it good? How do we make it authentic? You know, are people going to go for it kind of thing. >> I think that's going to be the problem because you'll have like a thousand of everything. There will be so much content that you'll need AI to sort through the content and uh and and just kind of present the c same as what we had with Google when it came out, right? There were so many websites. We needed to curate the websites and show us the best websites. Well, uh, imagine like an infinity of underlying content and AI agents picking the best answer for you. Uh, yeah, it's it's going to be a problem, but at the same time, it's like picking your business model right now, it's so difficult because you don't know how far this is going to go and if you're too good like if you're aiming too high, they will come for your lunch. Uh, okay. Last story, and this is not a clawed one, but Notion have released custom agents, which again I I'm getting vibes of like open claw um >> to me. Yeah, open claw/cowork. I think it's kind of a bit of a bit of >> the way they I think they they've phrased it on their site like agents that work while you sleep inside notion. Um, yeah. And that to me is like an open claw response. I think everyone's trying to capitalize at least maybe in their marketing if not their features directly. I agree. >> Well, talk to us about custom agents. What do they do and how are they different from the old agent feature? >> I'll show you actually. Um, and I'll just do that. Um, so this is what they look like. Uh, you have these new agents in beta on the sidebar here. So, for example, I have this one that's like a social media post draft. I was testing. I'm not using it actively. Um, but you have quite a lot of settings in these where you can chat with it to make edits as it say. So, it has like a page of instructions. Think of it like your skill.md or your uh system prompt that tells it what to do and it's just a notion page, right? So you could just write and edit if you want. Um and then you have what's really cool is it you have tools and access. So in here doesn't have a lot of tools. It has notion it has web access. But if you click on connections, you can see they have a lot of tools but they also have add custom MCP and you can connect any MCP here. So I could connect my HFS MCP and have it do keyword research for example. I could, you know, let's say I could and then yeah, any data source that has an MCP, you can connect here >> and you can make anything like you like an N8 automation have an MCP that you can connect to that automation. >> You can trigger an like >> you can create your own server. >> Your imagination is the limit at this point. It's like whatever whatever you imagine you can do. But what's really powerful is like okay, you have all these tools. You can choose which model you want as well. Like you know they have opus, they have all of that like all of the models are here. Um, and you can tell it which errors it can go to. But what's really interesting is the triggers as well. Um, so you know, cloud code you kind of have to type on your computer unless you create a chrome job. Whereas here you can do triggers on Slack. So, you know, I was testing it the other day where I was posting on Slack and the model would just respond directly in Slack actually. Uh, which is kind of cool. Uh, you can also do that on a comment editor page. So, let's say you're working on something uh, and you're like, "Hey, social uh, agent, I think there's some cool stuff here. Read this and prepare some social post." It will just do it. uh and then do whatever it's told like create pages on your notion, create p like anything you want a page added to a database. Again, you could imagine that you have your database connected via a web hook to your contact form for example and someone fills the contact form on your site that creates a page on the database. Well, you could have an agent that qualifies that lead whenever they opt in for example and updates let's say if you have or like you know connects to your email tool, connects to whatever via MCP and does things for you. So connects to your calendar, connects to your email, anything you can think of. So yeah, you can build these automations and obviously on a schedule you could say like every Monday morning, every whatever. Um, so you can build pretty advanced automations here that trigger whenever you want or when something happens in your business a bit like so it's a bit of a hybrid between cloud code and NAN in a way. >> Yeah, that that trigger feature functionality is you know it's kind of missing from cloud code at the moment at least in a an easily accessible way. >> I agree. I think they will bring it because codeex they have it now. Um so so >> codeex is open >> the open code let's just say >> which is not as good. >> Do we have a name for these like claw code and codeex like is there named coding agent? >> Okay. >> Yeah accurately represent what it can do >> because we use it differently. Um but codeex is very much for coding. I would not use it for something else which is why we don't talk too much about it. Um and so yeah, you can do that and then you can trigger these workflows. Now the catch is that they say it's in beta, right? Uh and when it like so for now I can run as many as I want for how much I want. However, coming May, I think they will work on the credit system and the credit system is not cheap. So if you're not going to run all your agents on Opus because like if you wanted like a morning brief agent that runs on Opus, it would cost you $ 20 to $30 per month. And so if you start having a lot of these agents doing a lot of things, you could end up with like thousands of dollars of invoice to notion. That's where the model creators win again. >> Are they pay API price? >> So are notion is this like a revenue thing for notion? Like are they trying to make margin on? >> I think it's a bit of both, right? It's like it's a way to kind of like make you pay more than $30 per seat. Um and at the same time it cost them money. They pay the API, right? The AOP API is expensive. Uh it's and so >> must cost them a fortune at the moment because they're not charging anything for that. >> Yeah, they're in gross mode so they're paying a lot of money. Um but the point is that it wouldn't be surprising to me that someone who builds a ton of these agents on notion ends up paying thousands of dollars of overage fees every month. And so that's we go back [snorts] to our debate on the model makers always win because when when code like imagine the force tab on the cloud app that is called automations and all these triggers exist um like and then you pay your $200 per month subscription and you get $2,000 of API from that which is what happens right now then notion's product is kind of in trouble because you can do mo because there's a notion MCP so I can have my clothes code interact with notion as I need to run the agent on ocean. Uh, and so like it's a cool feature, but I'm afraid they will not be successful. I mean, they'll be successful with companies who have like a ton of money and and really not tech people. I think that's what they're going for. But the reality is within three months, I believe code or the code desktop app will have some kind of automation feature that does the same thing. >> Okay, we're going to wrap up there. So, thanks everyone for listening or watching if you're on YouTube. Uh if you want to ask us any questions about this stuff, head on over to the uh YouTube version of this, leave a comment there. We'd do our best to respond to all of them. Or if you want all of these automations and skill files and things like that that we've been sharing and a lot more, head on over to authorityhacker.comacelerator and join our program there. Otherwise, make sure you subscribe so you don't miss next week's episode. Uh and we'll see you next time. Bite.