I've run more than 50,000 ads. I've driven about $280 million in sales and also I've worked for like the biggest brands in the world doing marketing for them. And now, as you said, I'm a creative strategy mentor for Daily Mentor, which is the world's biggest ecom like founders community. You have to be doing at least a million dollars a year to join that. >> Where do you think this uh whole creative strategy term even comes from? >> It's just a buzz word. It's a it's jargon, isn't it? As long as you're growing a business and you're in some way contributing to ads that actually profit, that's what creative strategy is to me. And for me, there are three main parts of creative strategy. There's the research, the conception, and the execution. But what's funny is that 80% of that person's job is copyrightiting essentially. >> I find that copyriters in general, they've they've always really been strategists. Like otherwise, they should just be called ghostriters or >> writers. Like you have an opportunity here to be much more than just a writer that takes orders. >> Exactly. And brands right now have creative strategy at the top of their heads. So if you're not coming on to them saying, "Yeah, I can do creative strategy." Then you're you're leaving money on the table. >> So it's like if you can identify what's relevant now, >> Yeah. >> then you can jump in and when you can close like a creative strategy client, you can take over their advertising and you can take over the email back end. You can have one client that pays you $10,000 a month. >> Oh god. Yes. It's like corporate is always asking like how do you how do you build a sixf figure freelance business? Like bro, two clients you can be a $20,000 a month. >> I was in a position which most people would consider like not privileged. I had family to look after. I was lucky because I had that drive of like I want to look after my sisters. I I wanted to, you know, buy my mom a house. My nan like she got dementia and I was like you want I want to put her in like the best home, the best care and all this kind of stuff. My boss at the council, he told me once, if you stick stick out here and you you work really hard in the next three years, you know, you could be on 40k. I was like, right, well, that's not going to pay for all the stuff I already know I need to do with my family. It just really depressed me hearing that. And in my first year when I when I left, um I earned more than double what he had said I would earn. And yeah, God, since then, like I've taught so many people how to do creative strategy. So if you want to position yourself in a way that you're most likely going to make money and I think you are you are stupid and you are like boxing yourself into a corner if you because that is going to be where so much money is made over the next couple of years. Copyrighters right now are kidding themselves if they're not actively trying to add those skills to their repertoire because that is going to be where so much money is made over the next couple of years. >> All right. So today I'm here with Alex M. Nice to have you here, bro. >> No, thank you so much for having me. I'm very looking forward to this conversation. >> Yeah, I think uh I think it's well needed because our space right now, especially copriters, it's been a it's been a crazy 6 months where actually it's been a little bit longer, but I think more cooperators have been starting to become aware of this creative strategy stuff over the last six months and everybody's been throwing the term around. Yeah. And we hiring creative strategists. We need a creative strategist. I'm a creative strategist. Some people are a little bit frustrated. They're like, "Oh, you know, you shouldn't be calling yourself a creative strategist if you're a copyriter." Some business owners are looking for creative strategists and don't even quite know what they need in a creative strategist. And um for anybody that's listening that doesn't know, Alex, you know, you've uh you've got a lot of experience with creative strategy. You run an agency, you've exited some of your own businesses before as well, right? Ecom, the ecom businesses. >> Yeah. Yeah. I've done a few things. So, I'm um technically I'm a creative strategy mentor at the world's biggest ecom founders um community. Uh so you have to be doing at least a million dollars a year to join that. So that's my big kind of uh creative strategy uh role if you like. But then I do creative strategy as a consultant. Uh my agency does creative strategy and then I've uh launched scaled and sold my own ecom brands. Uh but this kind of comes back to the main point which is is what you said at the beginning which is like what is creative strategy? You know why is everyone talking about it right now? And it's funny and it's annoying and if you're watching this, you're annoying for asking the question what creative strategy is because creative strategy is just a madeup term. Yeah. >> First of all, and that's what everyone has to understand. Like um don't feel pressured to to to think about the nuances of it. >> I didn't even know that it should be called creative strategy until like about a year and a half, two years ago when I started to hear the term. Before that, for the last eight years, like I've been calling it just ads. You know, you're running ads. That's what you're doing. So when we talk about creative strategy, the first thing to understand is everyone has a slightly different definition. >> Essentially, the way that I like to think of it is that you are just trying to find the right ads that work for your audience. That's it. And that just means producing, ideating, creating these ads that you run on Facebook, Instagram, so Meta or Tik Tok or YouTube, wherever else. Um creative obviously just means the the static or the video of the ad. uh and that's where the term comes from. But I see people talk about like oh it needs to be more strategic. You need to focus on the operations. You need to only look about the ideation. Everyone has a slight different definition. And the first thing to realize is that >> it it doesn't matter as long as you're growing a business and you're in some way contributing to ads that actually profit. That's what create strategy is to me. >> Where do you think this uh whole creative strategy term even comes from? Because to me it just sounds like performance marketing or like growth >> marketer or fractional CMO almost you know it's like just somebody that scales businesses or grows businesses >> just a buzz word it's it's jargon isn't it like we had you know we've had accountbased marketing conversion copyright so many things come out and people are like I'm that and everyone everyone becomes obsessed with that for a year a couple of years and then they move on and I think it'll be the same with creative strategy >> the difference with creative strategy is that um >> what the contents of it are what people are talking about is actually super important and it is getting more and more important. So I think it's right we're talking about it. Um but ultimately I think that as long as you are contributing to the success of a brand like growth then you can say you're involved in creative strategy if you have anything to do with ads. I find that copywriters in general, they've they've always really been strategists. Like otherwise, they should just be called ghostriters or >> writers, but a copywriter to produce copy, you need you need strategy. You need, you know, psychology. You need to understand how to create offers >> and then you have the words, you know, it's like product market fit, words. >> So copyriters have always really been strategists, like good copyriters. I mean, would you would you say maybe like with the creative aspect of it, it's like the copy is you write the copy, but now you're kind of directing how it should look visually to a little bit more than before so that you can maybe pass it off to a team or do it yourself. Maybe that's the new skill sort of for some of them. It's like but everything else like looking at the ad account um looking at ways to execute the offer and like how to position the offer, how to frame it, you know, which markets to kind of target. To me, all that stuff's always been what copers do. >> Yeah, I think it's a really good way to frame it. Um and for me there are three main parts of creative strategy. You know for if if you want to be a creative strategist, three main parts of your job. There's the research, the conception and the execution. >> And you will work with different other people to to uh make those things work. For example, when it comes to execution, you need video editors, you need designers. Okay? If you're not writing the copy yourself, you need copywriters. There's so much crossover with copywriting when it comes to Crave Strategy because of exactly what you've just said. To me, you know, I started off as a copywriter and copy is the lifeblood of persuasion. Ultimately, you can't convince someone to do something unless you're using language. So, copy is always the lifeblood of persuasion. The difference in create strategy comes because you have to consider these other elements like you've just said. You need to consider the visuals. You need to consider not just what's on screen, but also what's being narrated. And that's still copy, but the audio that you use can also have an effect on all these small things. So, um, the reason there's so much crossover between copy and create strategies is because I think at their core, they do the same things. And what's interesting is, you know, I talk to like two or three ecom brands every single day, like new brands that I talk to every day as as part of one of my coaching jobs. Um, and I would say about 70% of those brands do not have copywriters and creative strategists. It's one role. >> Yeah. So they will just call it they usually call it a creative strategist or creative manager or something like that but they're writing all the copy as well. But what's funny is that 80% of that person's job is copywriting essentially. You know it's it's the things that we would associate with a copywriter. It's doing the uh market research. It's looking at swipes. It's coming up with ideas. It's putting them into scripts. It's writing the the ad copy around it. Um that's most of their job. The stuff that is new is the managing a team, managing like a creative team, creating, as you said, visuals for designers and video editors to use. So, making sure you're explaining in a line of a script, here's how I want this to look, you know, in the video. And those are only like 20 I think that's only 20% of the role really. So, um I think copyrighters right now are kidding themselves if they're not actively trying to add those skills to the repertoire because that is going to be where so much money is made over the next couple of years at least >> because brands are looking for it. And it's crazy, you know, we can sit here all we like and kind of conceptualize things and we can we can talk as like, you know, philosophers of copyrightiting and be like, "Oh, this is silly that brands think of it this way. It's actually this thing." But ult doesn't matter. All that matters is what are people willing to pay for. >> And brands right now have creative strategy at the top of their heads. So if you're not coming on to them saying, "Yeah, I can do creative strategy. I'm a creative strategist." Then you're you're leaving money on the table. So I would really recommend, you know, if you're watching this and you're a copywriter, um, or you have any other skill set that's kind of related to copyrightiting, I would definitely be looking at how can I implement creative strategy to my arsenal of skills. So yeah, that that's ultimately I think where the conversation has to head with with copywriters at the moment. >> It all comes back to marketing. I mean, you got to, you know, when we when we write copy for any market, we're like, it's this is the old way. This is the way things used to be, and kind of here's the new way. That's the psychological principle behind a lot of marketing. This is how it was, but it's different now. >> Exactly. >> And if you're a copyriter, you should just apply it to yourself. It's like businesses used to need copyriters, >> but now they need something more. they need creative strategy like sure if that's if that if that's what brands >> are like telling themselves and that's how they they see the role just apply it to yourself like that and I think this is where >> um at least from my experience coaching like lots and lots of copyrighters is >> many many people get stuck in the in the titles and they don't realize it's a mechanism and in in like it's a meta it's it's a mechanism as well >> to call yourself a >> senior copyrighter conversiondriven conversion focused cop copyriter, direct response copyriter, chief copyriter, lead copyriter, head of copy, copy chief, doesn't really matter what you call yourself. Like ultimately, copyriters are mockers. >> Mhm. >> Their strongest skill, I would say, is that they can put words on they can they can execute everything that they have in their head in written form as well. And um yeah, like just, you know, I think the reason I bring it up is I saw a post the other day which was talking about like, oh, you know, creative strategist is a real thing. It's been around for so long and like there are real creative strategists out there and like cooperators are now pitching themselves as creative strategists. They should they shouldn't be doing that and you know no don't don't pitch yourself as a creat but that's what the market needs right now. So >> exactly you know we we always change definitions and I I 100% agree that >> for me at least whenever I get asked what do I do? Someone's like oh what's your job? I just say I'm a marketer. That's the easiest thing because like I >> I could go into so many different definitions. Um >> ultimately I grow businesses. That's all I do. And there are so many different ways to do that. And I think you are you are stupid and you are like boxing yourself into a corner if you are so militant about like no I'm this very specific thing because like you say terms change all the time. You know creative strategy in the more traditional sense you know one of my my friends and business partners is um a he works for a big you know traditional ad agency who do you know like work the biggest brands in the world. They do like what what we would call brand advertising. So they work on, you know, like big social media campaigns, like billboards, out of home advertising, stuff like that. >> Um, and in those circles, they've had the term creative strategy for ages to mean something very specific, you know, something I don't even fully understand. But that doesn't matter because the majority of commerce, the majority of things that people buy and sell online that your average copyriter is going to get to be a part of, um, you know, your mom and pop shops, your ecom stores that are selling shower caps and people who are coming up with like new back supplements for for pain and things like that. They're calling creative strategy ads. They're calling it meta ads. They're calling it Tik Tok. They're worried about the Andromeda update, you know, which I'm sure we'll get to. Um, so if you want to position yourself in a way that you're most likely going to make money, that's how I would be doing it at the moment. Like, and and don't get married to that term either. >> You know, doesn't matter. It's you can you can change it in a few years when the next kind of phase comes along. >> Um, I think that's the smart thing to do. You have to you have to move to survive and not not get so militant about things have to be defined in a certain way because they don't. We're here to grow business at the end of the day. Let's not let's not be children about it. M one of the things I tell copyriters is whatever the market cares about right now like the thing that they the thing that they want you know let's say it's let's just pretend it's email okay if their priority is email position yourself as somebody that can solve their bleeding neck problem which is email if you get in and you do all the email stuff then you can upsell them on all the other aspects of their business until you do the full >> let's say I don't know fractional co or whatever you do for them where you're basically growing their business come in on the front end >> I mean it's the same as when you run marketing like when You run advertising in info for example, you >> have a low ticket product sometimes that you get people to buy >> and then you ascend them to the back end. >> Yeah. >> So it's the same when you when you acquire customers it's like or clients in this case as a marketer or copyriter get them on the front end with the thing that they're thinking about all day. Y >> and then when you're in their business once you solve that problem for them start solving other things and just as the market changes like I mean right now it's create a strategy maybe by the end of the year they're going to be all talking about retention marketing and increasing LTV and AOV. >> Yeah. I I mean God, you know, I remember so I've been in the e-commerce space for, you know, for eight years and I remember when um everyone went mad about subscriptions like subscriptions became a huge thing probably about like 20 I don't know 2018 2019 and everyone was like so loads of subscription apps came in on Shopify and Woo Commerce and that you know if you were a subscription marketer and you knew how to like >> Yeah. subscription strategist. >> Yeah. Exactly. And it was just like I mean like and don't get me wrong you know there's always there's always value behind these things like >> yeah you should be adding subscriptions to your store. Yeah. you should be being more diverse with your creative strategy or whatever. Um, so I think they're always based in reality somewhat, but like you also if you're a freelancer or you own an agency or business, you you have to to a degree play the game. >> Yeah. >> Like what, as you said earlier, what do we tell people when we're teaching them how to do copyrightiting? We say use the language that your audience use. >> Mh. >> Start with the conversation that's already happening in their head. That is how you do good copy. There's no difference between you selling a product and you selling yourself. you need to consider like how would I actually write this copy if I was going to get a conversion here because ultimately your career >> you getting a client that's a conversion that's a campaign you thinking of how do I sell this person >> um you know I I was a freelancer for >> for me like for many years um I was a freelance copywriter a content writer to begin with and a copywriter and a marketing consultant all this kind of stuff so you know I and you and I have that in common like freelance acquisition you know like we've done to death like we know we know how to do it >> um And one of my agencies at the moment, one of our whole business um models is we go to local businesses. So any business who is based in the local area and giving services to people who live locally. So uh you know chiropractors, you have to go there to to get something. Um pharmacists, you have to go in to get a medical service or whatever. Uh and our whole outreach outreach approach is we start with things that we know that they care about or things that are unique to them or things that like um that they would recognize as specific. So instead of saying we don't just go to them and say we you know we have an automated email sequence but like we don't just go to them and say oh like do you want to get more money? You want to grow sales because everyone is saying that. Instead, we use things like um like, "Hey, like notice that you're like on this road, you know, for example, like next to this like other bigger pharmacy. Um I know how annoying it is to like when you're a village farm, so you have like this big farm chain just down the road. So, we actually help smaller uh smaller independents get more of the market share of town than we say the town name. Um, and like I know they care about that cuz we've done the research about like what they care about and it's that kind of stuff that >> is what you need to think of. So it doesn't matter we're talking about creative strategy or whether we're talking about retention marketing or subscription marketing or whatever. What have they seen either trendwise or things that matter in their industry right now that you know you can talk about with authority. And the minute that you mention it, especially when no one else is talking about it, especially when everyone else is trying to cram copyrightiting down their throat, when what they care about is creative strategy, especially when other people are trying to cram increasing revenue down their throat, when what they really care about is just staying open as a business or, you know, not uh fories, you know, I've been working with aies law recently, but like withies um not wanting to hire unnecessary staff because it's a massive cost for them. >> That's the stuff they're worrying about. You can't force feed random like conversion terminology that they haven't themselves said that they're interested in. So, anything freelance, anything business, anything agency, any kind of client acquisition, you need to start where they already are. And right now, for most businesses or for a lot of businesses, creative strategy is top of mind, you know? So, that's what we should be talking about. >> I mean, this is Yeah. Like it goes back to when you do marketing for somebody else, how would you do marketing for them? So when you close them on creative strategy, there's some stuff that you can do on the back end of that. Like you close them on the front end, you take care of their advertising. You could say, "Hey, we're getting all these we're getting all these new customers on the front end. How can we take care of them better with email flows to get repeat customers, but you can sell them upsell them on email if you want to?" >> That's what I would do. Y >> then you can say, "Okay, well, we've got all these ads and we're putting all these ads in front of the right people. Have we got an optimized funnel >> to maximize the order value? Like you can suddenly you you go in here >> and you go and add all these other pieces, right? >> Yeah. It's the land and expand model. That's that's how I always thought about it. And you're so right, you know, in you know, e I've mainly cut my teeth in in e-commerce over the years. Obviously, I I have an info business and we do stuff for local businesses and service based businesses. But within e-commerce that the the mantra I always used to say to anyone who's learning from me or you know whenever I was consulting with a business or we were starting a new brand I'd always say the money's in the back end the money's in the list. So it doesn't matter if we get if we sell them on a dog treat you know okay yeah they buy a pack of dog treats. >> Well we've got them and we know they have a dog. >> So what else can we sell to them? And you don't even have to introduce new products. It can just be the same. >> Yeah it can be more of the same. It can be doing an affiliate like a list share with another brand. But the point is um if you can occupy the space where their attention is now you know that can be their email inbox that can be that ad feed that they have on on Instagram uh that can be like even sending them you know a physical piece of mail. If you can occupy that space of their attention and just give them something else you think might be interesting to them. Give them that a justification for oh you should also use this. Um, that's where you make the real money because all of a sudden that $10 bag of dog treats becomes a subscription of an with an LTV of $200. It becomes a um a specific customized uh piece of memorabilia for your dog, which is an extra $80. It becomes a um a list shared pet insurance deal, you know, which is an it could be an extra, you know, $100 like or whatever. that $10 becomes $3, $400 in LTV just because you're thinking, "What else can I sell this person?" Exact same as you as a freelancer. What can else can you sell your client? What else can you offer? Um, and don't get me wrong, most copyrighters don't even ask. They don't even think about this stuff. They just think, "Ah, I know how to write emails. I'm just going to write emails." And people are, you know, it really frustrates me. People, and this is, it's been like this, you know, I I probably first heard about copyrightiting back in like 2016, 2017. Um, >> no. We started about the same time actually. That's cool. >> Oh, there you go. 2017. >> Yeah. But like people, even back then, I'm sure you'll remember this. Even back then, people were saying >> copyright's oversaturated. People like that has been said for literally last 10 years. I've heard that, which is it's just bollocks because, you know, how many more copyrighters right now, bro? >> Exactly. That I heard this heard that back in 2016, but also I heard, you know, people go like, "Oh, email copy is where it's at. You have to learn email copy." Like, oh, you have to learn like Instagram outreach or or whatever. Um, and it's just ridiculous because what I always say to people is, you know, it it's just whatever's going to make a business money >> that's never going to go out of fashion. So, if you can do that, don't worry about um labeling yourself just as one thing. If you come along and say, I'm an email copyright and you just stick to that, you are cheating yourself out of so much more money. >> Some, you know, some people come along and say you have to niche down. You have to either serve one specific niche, you have to serve one specific service, and that's all you can do. Now, I'm not saying that can't work, but the beautiful thing about this industry and the world generally is that more than one thing can work. And people need to understand that like just because someone has had success from one thing, it doesn't mean that you can't have success from another thing. And for beginners and beginner copyriters, I would really warn against listening to anyone who tells you that this is the only way something works. If you listen to the conversation you and I are having now, neither of us have said so far like, "You have to do this thing. You must only do this." >> No, that's my next That's what I was about to say next. >> Oh. Oh, you're going to you're going to tell your audience they must do one thing. Go buy Matthew Vulquin's Everything. >> That's what you have to do. Um, but yeah, but the point is like >> you >> you have to understand there's more there's more ways to do this in life. So, >> always treat everything with a healthy dose of dose of skepticism and make sure you're just trying things that you know might work. And if they don't work, move on. But also listen to what people are telling you and be okay with experimenting. Be okay with not feeling that you have to do just one thing for the rest of your career. Um, I've changed thing. You know, I've changed like career paths and uh job titles and things probably more times than I can count in the last 10 years. I'd love to actually get into that in your journey. But what I think, you know, to your point, the relevancy here with creative strategy is that like everything does work, but markets are specifically focused on certain things at different times. So it's like if you can identify what's relevant now. >> Yeah. >> Then you can jump in and as we've talked about like most people don't really know what they mean by credit strategy, especially in our space. >> Copyriters don't know. business owners don't have clear scope even of what that is like of the it's like 30 corporis I'm coaching right now that have recently closed clients in like brands and DOSC e-commerce businesses >> they all have different descriptions of what they're supposed to be doing for this business one guy's like looking at all the data and like even helping with media buying >> another one is is coming up with >> you know brand voice congruency across the account in addition to the to the creative in in terms of uh you know the copy another one is responsible for copy you know promotional copy across the business to make sure all the promotional assets are all tailored to the same message like everybody's got a different definition >> but where the opportunity is what I'm seeing and this is why I really I'm so glad we we're doing this interview >> is that when no one knows exactly what's going on >> that's when it's like there's a novelty there's a new thing there's a there's a gap >> where it's like a bit of a blue ocean right now where it's like you can you can really break into the space. And when you can close like a creative strategy client, you can take over their advertising and you can take over the email back end, you can optimize the funnel and who knows, maybe even get more involved in like the media buying and everything else in the business. >> You can have one client that pays you $10,000 a month. >> Oh god. Yeah. >> Right. And like this is the thing I like for copyriters is like copyrighters always asking like how do you how do you build a sixfigure freelance business? How many clients do you need? What's the acquisition channel? I was like, "Bro, two clients, you can be at $20,000 a month with with this business model as it is right now." And once you're in with these businesses, these brands, and you have the reputation, the portfolio, if the market changes later and it becomes retention strategist or whatever the next buzzword is, you're already in. So like I think break in now, you know, upsell the client, get get like running all the stuff >> and then you can set yourself up for a career where you really won't get replaced by AI because the workflow is not just copy. It's you're talking with all the different departments. You're looking at the data. You're making more like the creative strategy role in in my mind is an opportunity to >> become like a mini CEO of the marketing department, >> you know, like you have an opportunity here to be much more than just a um writer that takes orders. And so, >> yeah, I no I agree. You know, I I have a term that I use and I I just call it like an e-arketer. An everything marketer is how I and I'm just like if you want to make when people say, "Oh, how do you earn money? What's the best way to make money?" >> And yeah, I'm just like just be an e- marketer. Like if you want like and I I don't position myself as that, I don't say you should call yourself an e-arketer, but you should think of yourself as an e- marketer. Which is >> if you find a way to make a business money, do that. There's no nothing's off limits. Don't go, "Oh, well that's not my job because I focus on emails." It's just be an e- marketer. Do everything, you know? Um which is why I've always hated the advice about, oh, you have to specialize. You have to niche down. Yeah. Like I've never specialized. I've never I've been a complete generalist. I'm like a proud generalist. But like I I get paid, you know, millions because I I'm willing to do everything. I'm willing to do whatever it takes to grow a business. And, you know, I'd say I'm more of a specialist in some areas than people who say they're specialists in those areas because of the natural consequence of me building my career, you know, and and working for clients. If I'm like, "Oh, actually, yeah, these emails don't seem very good. Okay, now let me learn loads about email strategy." >> Right? That's now a skill. Brilliant. I can go I could build the rest of my career just around email strategy if I wanted to. But as you say, that's I wouldn't make anywhere near as much money if I just did emails because instead I can say, well, all right, we're going to do the creative. We're also going to look at retention. We're going to look at, you know, SMS. We're going to look at the copy on your sales pages. We're going to look at ecom product pages and all these things. You know, I've everything I've just listed, we do all that. My agent does all that for one client. Like right now, there's one client right now paying us £20,000 a month. So that's about I don't know like 2025,000 something like that. um maybe a bit more like one client paying us that every month. >> So if I was a freelancer, you know, let's just say half that that's that's $13,000 a month. >> Not bad. Yeah. >> And it's like that's, you know, that that's what I dream when I start all this. What I I dreamed of doing that. Um so creative strategy, you know, just to just kind of cap cap everything we've been talking about so far, like creative strategy right now is top of mind for so many businesses. So if you can capitalize on that now, that is going to be the entry rate into clients to then land and expand. Um, and as you say, like AI, >> I mean, we we maybe talk about AI a little bit later, like AI is not the threat everyone thinks it is. Like it's the threat for very very crap, um, you know, tasks and very crap copyriters cuz like it can do good enough stuff very well, very quickly. But if you just if you can just utilize AI for yourself, then you've immediately overcome that objection straight away because businesses still need someone to implement AI, that will never ever change. You know, AI can get as good as you possibly it can come up with it could come up marketing strategies, uh produce creative for you, all that kind of stuff. But businesses still need to be told, okay, what what AI model do I use? Oh, which one's best for this? Um how do I move when that creative been done? How does it move into like this system? And like, oh, can I have someone double check and I need someone to be accountable for this? So, you know, the whole AI conversation is another one where it's like it you just see it as a skill. See AI automation workflows as a skill for you as a as an everything marketer to then give to clients. Uh and that goes for creative strategy, email retention, anything else we can possibly talk about. >> I really like this term every everything. It's really fresh. >> That was a thanks. Again, it's it's bollocks. It's [ __ ] It's just it's just a term I came up with to make it make sense. But >> looking for an everything marketer. >> Yeah. We're a fast-paced team where we, you know, work weekends and nights, you know, we're a fast-paced team. We're looking for an A player who can figure it. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> We've kind of gone a little bit of we've kind of done this interview in reverse because usually we kind of start with everybody's story and everybody's journey, but we went straight into career strategy. I'd love to I'd love to kind of circle back here a little bit and say, "Okay, so everybody watching has got an idea of like what the opportunity is right now and where they can create a career for themselves that's that's multi6 figures if you do it if you you know approach it correctly. What was your journey like? And and like how did you get to the point where you're essentially a creative strategist for lack of a better word where you're able to do stuff at the level where these um these copyrighters right now they want to get like I'd love to know a bit about your story and also yeah like what you needed to do to get where you are today. Oh one more thing just before you even go any further >> um >> what are some of the things that you've done like over over your career that uh we didn't even talk about that. >> Oh the cred re like a cred thing. >> Oh no. Okay. Why should any of these people be listening to me? They have no [ __ ] clue what I've done. >> Stop listening to me. >> Um, yeah. So, so I, so I mentioned earlier, um, so I I've started, um, scaled and sold my own e-commerce businesses. They was purely me, 100% owned by me. Nice. >> Um, that was and that was so by the age of 22, I had that was like 400 grand in like exit. So, you know, that's how much money I took home from from selling those, which was crazy. Which was crazy. And obviously I'll talk in a minute I'll talk about like the kind of journey to that point. But um but yeah so I've done that but then also I've worked for like the biggest brands in the world doing marketing for them. So like Uni Lever I've done stuff for a ton Uni Lever. So Uni Lever own like a ton of businesses. So I did stuff for their digital commerce division. So it creates strategy for them. Um and also uh did like funnel kind of funnel consulting. So >> anything that they sell online as part of a third party retailer. So you get like loads of retail stores who who have their own online shops. uh you need either have like a say in how their products are advertised in there, like how how the ads um uh look and like what kinds of stuff get produced. So, I was doing that for them for like a year. That was I think that was when I was like 21. Um and I'll talk I'll I'll I'll tell everyone who's watching about like how I even got myself to that point and convince people to hire me. Um but also I've worked with a ton of ecom businesses just outside of that. So like brands that that you'll recognize. I've worked with the likes of Bark. I've worked with a ton of um of the kind of health um skin care brands. Uh we've worked with like celebrity partners. I now as I said I'm a creative strategy mentor for Daily Mentor which is the world's biggest ecom like founders community. Um and then I also co-own Copy that which obviously a copyrightiting and marketing uh YouTube channel and business which you've you've appeared on >> uh with a few of my business partners. Yeah, it's a they're I love copy that. It's it's it's really fun. Um, and probably other stuff that I'm I'm forgetting. Uh, but I've done I've done a load of stuff. And this is goes back to the point about me being a generalist. You know, I've done so many things that >> like I I couldn't possibly say I specialize in one area because I've done way too much. But that's just also me. I love doing multiple things. It's really fun. Um, so yeah. So that's me. I've I've driven about $280 million in sales essentially. So, for the campaigns that I that I have actually owned, like you know, so not the businesses I've owned, I should say, like I'm talking about like clients I've been a part of, but campaigns I've been responsible for. Um, I think with I think we're getting we're getting pretty close to like $300 million now. >> Um, but last year I actually >> added everything up. >> You you you eventually just stopped counting. >> I I like I started counting off like 10 million, you know, a few years ago and then I and then someone was like, "Oh, how much you done?" I was like, "I should probably count again." So, yeah. So, we're, you know, we're nearing like 300 million in product sales. Um, uh, most of that has been from from e-commerce. >> Uh, but I've also worked for like some big SAS platforms. Um, loads of local service based businesses. Um, yeah. And all of that, the first thing I'll say before I even talk about my story of how I got there is all of that came from a mindset of I don't know everything. I don't know all the things that work, but all I know is if I position myself in a way that I'm trying to help other businesses make money, I probably can't go too far wrong. So all of this stuff, no matter where I landed and and in fact before this interview, uh we were talking this morning about like how you get to a point where you don't need to outreach anymore because you just get referrals. >> Yeah. >> And like both you and and I, you know, have been there now for for a few years, I imagine, like where I have to I have to turn so much work down now. Um and people will hit me with stuff I've never even dreamed. You know, I um before this a couple weeks before this interview, I got um contacted by a chocolate company. Had seen my work somewhere and they were like, "Oh, would you be interested in like talking?" And now I'm going into them with a percentage of profit share and a retainer each month for for my agency. So, it's like stuff that I never would have even thought about. >> Um financial businesses as well, like who who've hired me or who who've like seen my work or are interested or been referred to by by other people. So all of this came with this idea, this mindset of I'm just going to try and help people make money and if you do that you can get anything. >> So story um very very we'll do the short version. Um so I as I said start off as a content writer. Um >> I actually when I was like 15 I volunteered at a dog rescue. Um and I was kind of just given like this social media and stuff to do cuz I was a kid. So they were like ah they he'll know how to do that thing. Um, and I I learned that because we we did leaflets as well, and they were they were crap. I wish I could like I go I don't have any of them anymore. I wish I wish I did, but like uh they were really bad leaflets that I used to like write, but what I what I noticed was like you would send one leaflet out one day and we get, you know, x amount of donations and we send another one out another day, like different one, and we get more donations or we get fewer donations. And I find that really interesting. I was like, "Oh, that's so that's so cool." Um, so that was when I first kind of got the marketing bug, I would say. Um, but it wasn't for a couple of years, you know, when I was 16, 17, I was always trying to make money. And even though I was like, you know, under 18, I was like, um, I was trying to find ways that either like friends might pay me to do a little something or like I would have I was always trying to make money. Um, and then it got to the point where I I I really enjoyed writing. I just I liked it. So, I said, "Oh, I think I typed in like how to make money writing online, something like that." Uh, and I found about content writing. Uh I worked for um rev.com which is now completely AI but it used to be uh they they would hire people to actually type out subtitles. So they would send in people send in videos and you would type out the subtitles yourself and I you know you get like $2 per like five minute video or something ridiculous. So it took me ages but that was the first way I ever made money writing online. Um and then I did uh Fiverr. You know I five profiles doing loads of loads of content writing jobs. The reason I was talking about that for a while um is because I think it's important to realize like I didn't start knowing all this stuff. I didn't start >> You didn't sell a company for 400,000 bucks >> day one. >> Yeah. Like it there was no shortcut. There was no one told me anything like you have to do this. >> I really modeled my way through for a good like two three years. I was making barely any money. You know, it it took me like a year and a half to even get paid when I when I figured out about copyrightiting because after the whole content writing thing I heard about copywriting. Now to me now like they're very similar things. People spend too much time thinking about what's the difference between copyrighting >> the same thing as creative strategy. It's like exactly >> but at the time but it was the first time I'd heard the term copyrightiting probably when I was like yeah like 16 17 I must have been 17. Um and then I was like ah uh cool this sounds fun like get paid to write to sell to people. It made sense. Um so I became obsessed with that. Uh, and I actually got my first big breaks um, pitching local businesses like terribly first of all, you know, like but that that was it. So when everyone so many people don't talk about like oh reach out on Instagram or go to like coaches or you have to work out your niche. I was like I was just anyone who was local to where I lived at the time. I was just going to I I would walk in sometimes. I would, you know, like call them. Um, I would mainly message on like Facebook and just say hey I would start with like I'm a copywriter. And so many times people like I don't need a copyriter. And then I started realizing loads of people didn't know what copyright was. >> People like didn't understand the value of copy. No. >> So that those errors made me realize okay I shouldn't stop by talking about copyrightiting. I should start talking about like oh I saw this leaflet you put through. I this is what I try. I used to collect leaflets. I used to go around I used to ask friends and family for leaflets they would get. And I used to say like oh I got this leaflet from you. Love that you're doing this. Um would you be okay with me creating a new one for you for free and seeing if it did better? And that was how I got a load of clients to begin with. Um, so I just the thing it was quite a slow burn. It was like a year of me trying to just learning trial and error of like how people like to respond to things and and >> like from like a client acquisition like reaching out to people. >> Yeah. Like I made so I'm I I honestly feel like and you're probably very similar to this like I feel like I have reached out to more businesses than 99.999% of copyright and marketers. Like I I don't doubt it. Like I have reached out to so many people over the years especially those early days. >> Yeah. Um and but yeah, so it was a lot of trial and error. I won't go into like all the things that that kind of happened, but the long story short of this section is people and started taking more of a chance on me. I then started to kind of go, "Oh, can I also try doing your like Facebook ads or Google?" They were doing things and then I would learn >> learn and expand. >> Exactly. I was doing it back before I even knew it was a smart thing to do. I was just doing it cuz like I wanted to make more money. >> When you get the reps in When you get the reps and you get like you learn what you need to do, right? >> I remember having a conversation. So, I used to, one of my clients used to be a water filtration business based in Bedford in the UK. Horrible town. Uh, I lived there for 18 years. Um, and we I was doing leaflets for them. Uh, I still remember the leaflet that came through my door that I that I then wrote back to them to to do a new version of. Uh, but I noticed they were doing Google ads. I remember having the conversation and I said I was like, "Who does your Google ads?" And they were like, "Oh, we we just do it." Um, and I was like, "Can I have a go?" And they were like, "Yeah, okay." And I said, "Will you pay me more if I do a good job?" Like the leaflet thing. And they were like, "Yeah, we will." And that for some reason that spark was what made me realize about land and expand. You know, that made me realize like I should be doing more here. So then whenever I would, even though I would still be asking questions and doubting my ability sometimes, I'd still be looking online like for best copyrightiting niche or I'd like be asking people in different communities, what's the best how do I make the most money doing copyrightiting? Even though that was all I was still doing all that, what I started to realize naturally was it's all it's all [ __ ] All this stuff that people are pushing about it being a best or the only way just doesn't make sense. >> So over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. >> What's the best outreach email? >> I've just said there's no best and you hit me with a best question. >> Just kidding. >> No, but Jamie, I get it. Yeah, >> but but outreach emails though, they are really good. Um, like people say, "Oh, cold email doesn't work anymore. You can't do cold email." [ __ ] that. Cold email absolutely works. >> Everything works. >> Everything works. >> Everything works when you put in a good amount of volume. When you put in a good amount of volume, >> when you get feedback on what's happening, whether it's data or whether it's somebody who actually knows what they're doing and you're consistent. I mean, >> it's those principles, fundamentals. >> Just stick to those principles of persuasion, you know, um, of like being making sure you're being relevant to someone, making sure you're cutting through the noise, being different to what other people are doing. >> Um, anyway, so so moving ahead. So I I then kind of got into and bear in mind alongside this I was working 9 to5 >> you know. Yeah. So like you know everything I'm talking about now for everything we've just spoken about I had I had a job you know the age of 15 I was working in a fish and chip shop. Um >> you know I was you know I was a I was a carer as well at the time. So like I I was getting I had like no time you know. So when people when people say to me I haven't got time to do this. I've got a job. I say tough [ __ ] Like you have to do this you know. I was I was a carer. I had a part-time job at chip shop when I was you know still in school. Um, and then after that I got >> sorry to caj why were you pushing so hard? So yeah, >> I mean for me like and this is where I think I was lucky in a sense and a lot of pe a lot of people when they talk to me and they hear about my story they go like oh that's really bad or that's oh god really sorry for that. Um but like I feel quite lucky because I was in a position which most people would consider like not privileged and that you know I was I had family to look after and like you know I was young and we you know was born kind of council estate in Watford in the UK. I was lucky because I had that drive of like I want to look after my sisters. I I wanted to, you know, buy my mom a house. I wanted to, you know, put make sure my my my nan like was was looked after and like a nice and you know, she she got dementia and I was like, you know, I want to put her in like the best home with the best care and all this kind of stuff. Um so that that was already important to me. And I think that having that like external drive of like um I need to make sure these people are happier >> I think is always going to be stronger than just I want to make money. So for me it was never about money for the sake of money. It was about it was money to I need to get people out of shitty situations or I you know I I I can't I can't deal with my family not being looked after. So even though like you can look at that on the surface and be like oh that's really unfortunate the position you're in. I actually think for business and growing I think it's I think it's a very fortunate position to be in because you almost don't have a choice. >> Yeah. >> So I feel I count myself quite lucky. >> Responsibility takes over. >> Exactly. You know I I was work you know I was working from the age of 13 you know caring and then like chip short. So, like I'm I was so used to having a hard work ethic anyway, which I think a lot of people >> I don't want to sound like a like an old man, but like I think a lot of people nowadays sometimes have an issue with is cuz kids, especially like kids now, >> kids, >> you know, I know. And I and like I'm only, you know, I'm only 25, so like whenever I say that, people like you're a kid. But like, but I do mean like having a part-time job at like a young age, I think, is like so important because it just makes you realize if you have to get up early and go somewhere and you have to get back late and then you still have stuff to do. I think it just makes you realize like forget this kind of mentality of like, oh, I should be relaxing or I should treat myself more. It's like, no, if if you want to achieve something, you have to work extraordinary hours. Um, but anyway, so like that was that was my drive definitely. Um, it then mutated into more than that. Then it was like I want to push myself. I want to do more. I never really dreamed about getting rich as such. You know, it was always nice. It was always a night like, "Oh, I'd love to do that one day." But like it wasn't a it wasn't like an ambition so to speak. But then when I realized when I achieved all those goals I mentioned earlier and I was like looking after my family, I then I kind of realized, okay, like I could actually now get rich like I could seriously buy myself like the [ __ ] my dream home. I could, you know, get all the stuff I've wanted. I can >> time to get a Lamborgh. >> Yeah. Not for me. I don't have a driving license, but you know. Um but yeah, so I was like this is possible. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, it definitely mutates, but I think I think the I think you have to have like that internal I don't know if I don't even know if you can train that. I think you have to have that that >> an external reason and like an internal drive. I think that's going to that's the the formula. That's not to say like if you're watching this you don't have something like that that you can't do it. Like you totally can. You just need to stay disciplined. As you said, you need to be consistent with it. You need to have someone giving you that feedback or or you know be willing to make a fool of yourself to get that feedback from from clients so to speak. Um >> but anyway so so yeah that was so that was when I I I kind of just got more like got more responsibilities. I then uh I was working so at that point I was also working for a local government. Um so I worked for I I got an office job in London and then I got a job locally to me like working for the local council. Um and that sucked and it was horrible but it you know I was on like I think I was on £18,000 a year when I first got that. So about you know 20 25 grand a year something like that dollars. Um and outside of that from 5 till 9 in the morning and then from you know 5 until like midnight every evening I was just focusing on copyrighting. I was just focusing on marketing and then within like a year two year and a half two years of that I then had earned enough money with my part-time copyrightiting to just quit. >> So that's what I did. So I cuz I remember I just remember the day that I realized I was making I think I was making three grand a month from copywriting while I was still at my 9 to5 job that was paying me like two you know $2,000 a month. I was like I don't need it. I was like I'm just going to double down on copyright now. So I quit and then um within a year within that year so my boss at the council uh I won't name him. He was he was okay. But he told me once he took like took me into his office because we were talking about like the future and he was like he was like oh he was like if you if you stick stick at us here and you you work really hard in the next 3 years you know you could be on 40k and like and I was just like I was like right well that's not going to pay for all the stuff I already know I need to do with my family. And I was like it just really depressed me hearing that. And he was on 60k cuz I remember cuz I was I was an order. I >> thought he was giving you a good deal. >> Yeah. Yeah. And Yeah. Yeah. So he was like, "Oh, you know, like cuz he knew what I he knew that I knew what he was on cuz I was an auditor, so I had access to salaries and stuff. That was part of my job was to was to make sure people weren't being overpaid and things." Um and uh >> and in my first in the first year when I when I left um I earned more than double what he had said I would earn. So I I I was on 80,000 >> damn nice >> dollars like would have been pounds. Yeah. So 80 grand um within that first like year like at the end of that year when I left and I was just like I was like I'm earning more than my boss. I was like that's so mad to me. And then from there it just you know it like doubled and then it doubled um >> as it does. >> Yeah. And that that was along after I left the um after I left the council that was when I started doing um I I I'd always been trying to do stuff with e-commerce. I'd always loved the idea of setting up my own store. I failed miserably a couple of times like with print on demand stuff. Just did not work. Um but then I launched my first um store which was like a outdoor storage units um which was during the second year of the pandemic because I just realized hey people were doing so much stuff with their gardens and in that first year of the pandemic loads of people bought sheds and stuff. I was like it's probably going to happen again. >> So I just I I um essentially bought stock from an existing retailer and I kind of partnered with them and I said would you >> like kind of front me stock >> if if I did marketing and they were like yeah we can do that. Um, I mean that's that's a whole video in itself like to explain how I did that. But like um and then yeah I I think the first month we did like so in that would have been May we did like 60 grand and I was like what I was like that's crazy. And I ended up selling that and I think I sold it for 70k. Um cuz I didn't know what the hell I was doing and looking back on it I could have probably grown it. Um and then my second uh big store was the next year I think maybe a year and a half later which was beef jerky and beef bilong which we scaled massively and then end up selling for you know multiple six figures. >> Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. South Africa. There you go. So yeah that and that was like proper so there was actually um >> there's a brand called Hunters in the UK >> who who we like partnered with and the owner is South African. Uh so like it's it's like proper good built on. Yeah. Um and again we that was that was an ecom store. Um, and then through that I met other ecom store owners. I got equity in other brands like a dog GPS device and then I a few like I'm a massive fan of dogs. So like I went into a few like pet brands. Um, but then alongside that I just started doing more consulting and that was everything marketer consulting, you know, e-arketer consulting. I was just I would just say yes to everything. Um, which you know led to failures and led to me like embarrassing myself and not knowing how to do certain things. But I've always believed that saying yes first and then working out later is the best way to grow >> with you. Yeah. >> Um then from there um I kind of creative strategy was just a natural shadow wherever I went like you know what we now call creative strategy. I was always producing ads like front-end ads. I was always doing stuff for Meta and you know in later like Tik Tok. Um, so I'd always been doing that and that was when I got like noticed by um by Daily Mentor and they kind of said like, "Hey, can you can you come and like teach art brands how to do this?" Um, and yeah, God, since then like I've taught so many people how to do creative strategy. Um, and moving back to the point of this video, which is creative strategy. Um, for the last like three years I've been developing like what I call the creative engine system, which is just a name, you know, and we were talking about it's just, you know, all names are a bit [ __ ] but it's like it's like how I like to talk about it. >> CSE, bro. >> C. Yeah. CS. trademark trademark. >> Yeah. Yeah. CS C like I want to make sure it's it's there. Uh but yeah, so like the the CES that's I came up with that. Um >> creative engine >> creative engine system. >> System. >> Yeah. >> Systems or system? >> System. >> Okay. Creative engine system. >> Creative engine system. >> Uh so that that's I've been developing that for the last few years, but I've been developing that since I I before I knew what creative strategy meant. Like it it's just been for ads. you know, I have dozens and dozens and dozens of pages of SOPs, processes, specific things I've learned, tactics, strategies, overall principles. Um, and now my agencies use that and that's why I teach Big Press. That's what I that's what I went into Uni Lever and did. That's why I went into, you know, pets at home and did. Um, that's why I went into like the biggest pharmacy chains in the UK and like, you know, taught them how to do this stuff. So, and now like one of my other kind of jobs, one of the things I get paid for is um brands pay me to come and pay me and my team to come in and build these in-house systems for them. So, we'll build them their very own creative engine system so they can do it all inhouse, you know. Um and I'll also teach, you know, freelancers like, hey, here's how you actually do this stuff. Now, you can go and offer this to other to other businesses. Um, but regardless of if you call it creative strategy or ads or, you know, whatever you're trying to refer to all this as, the principle is very basic, which is all you're trying to do is relate to audiences on behalf of brands in a way that they're going to buy things. That's basically it. That's >> just relate to the audiences of the brands you're working with >> in a way that makes them buy things. That's basically it. >> And there are different kinds of ads you can run. You know, I have a we can we can talk in this in this uh interview about like what my methodologies are, but because I have so many different ways of positioning it, but ultimately if you're if you have that in your brain about like how can I just connect with this audience? >> Yeah. >> Through an ad, >> you can't go very far wrong. >> So, >> so yeah. So, there you go. That's that's been my journey. >> It's pretty amazing. Um, one thing that you mentioned in there which I really resonate with is uh what it actually takes to do this properly. And we were talking about this just before we got on this interview as well, like about copywriters that >> we have to coach or we have to work with and >> yeah, >> what it actually takes to get to the next level. And the guys that always make it, you know, we're talking a lot about like training somebody from scratch, >> right? >> It's like the culture stuff is is the part that you know, it's like how you approach it. your attitude is well we can call it mindset or whatever but like the attitude that you need to to succeed in in this industry let's just put it this way like copywriting is performance-based >> it's performance marketing you know so if you aren't willing to perform then you're going to find yourself in a difficult position in this industry that's been my experience it's like we the good old days of copyrightiting is when you go and write a VSSL you write it for $20,000 you get a percentage of that or you write a sales letter and you get a percentage. It's like it's all based on the incentive is all about how much money you can make the business at the end of the day. So if you're a copyriter watching this and you want to make it to the next level, it's like yeah volume volume would like really really deliver. I remember at the beginning of my career the reason I managed to get in with the right businesses I just didn't drop the ball. >> Yeah. Like sure, you know, I didn't have the skills at the level I needed to be at and I learned those skills over, excuse me, like two, three years, but whenever I had a project with them, even a week before we needed the copy, I was up at 2 a.m. working because I knew >> I cannot afford to mess up >> Yeah. >> a day before the deadline and then somebody else has to come and save me. >> And that's the thing is like I would I would rather fail a week before Yeah. the deadline. And I would sometimes I'd like write the copy and my copy chief would be like this is not it. >> But I still have like four, five, six days to fix it. And it's like so much more. It's so much like they always said to me, you know, one of the things we really appreciate you about you is your copy's clean. It's easy to read and you really got good energy and you come you come with good work ethic and like you you have good ethics in the way you do business. >> And that always stuck with me because I actually haven't heard many people say that before. And like business owners don't usually say that about cooperators. They usually don't say like the thing I like the most about working with you is is how you show up to work. That's rare. And I think that all the top copters I've spoken with like you know yourself um there are a few other cooperators. One of them is a millionaire um that he's you know all the feedback that he's told me that his clients gave him. It's like similar kind of thing. It's like we like working with you. >> Yeah. >> It's not just the skill stuff, right? So for anybody watching this that's really wants to get to the next level, whether it's creative strategy, whether it's, you know, funnel copy, whether it's full stack marketing, whether it's email list management or whatever the hell that you're up to, it's really like how do you show up and how do you focus on the bleeding neck problems that the business owner has and like look for ways to help them offload the stuff that they're thinking about onto your plate so that they can get back to their next point of leverage. >> 100%. Like if you can outwork everyone, >> that's a massive massive boon to you, you know. >> Um 100% agree. You need to >> look at the relationships you form with people. I mean, I actually have so I have a kind of a fourprong. I call it like the care square like in my head about and I I teach this to my to my agency uh and to anyone who I who I chief is like these are the things that clients care about. There are four things. >> Number one is results. First of all, like if you forgetting everything else, if you can show results, like tangible results that they care about, then great. Like you've done your job. That's awesome. So, make sure you're actually trying to get them results and that you know you're getting more revenue in or whatever it is or you're out you're beating their ads or whatever. Next is perception. How do they perceive the work you're doing? Um, for example, some clients um love to show off their homepage. They show it to friends at dinners. They show it. How how much does a homepage actually affect the the results of a business? Depends on the business, but usually not very much. Usually, you know, you shouldn't be driving people towards a homepage. You should be driving them towards specific landing pages. But clients, they perceive the homepage to be super valuable. So, you need to keep that in mind. So, results number one. Perception number two. Um, third is relationship. Like what you said, how much do they actually like you as a person? And just little tactical things you can do. remember when their birthdays are and send them like a little send them a hamper, send them a letter, something like that. Um it compliment like what they do, you know, and actually say, "Oh, I I watched you on this podcast. I think you're amazing. You did a really good job." Quote something specific within that podcast, so you prove that you watched it. Um even if and this is something we've started doing. Even if a client like leaves us, right, and we've we've got a ton of clients. We have quite a lot of small clients as well, like you know, local businesses and stuff. Even if a client leaves us for whatever reason, we'll send them a hamper. or send them like a thing as thank you so much love and that does wonders like because they will have such a fantastic um idea of the relationship they had with you after that. So regardless of why they left >> they will then you know cuz some some most and most people who like leave us or who still work with me tend to do it because of like external reasons like tend to be like oh you know the business just isn't doing very well like elsewhere or like oh I'm I'm moving or we're actually going to fold this in and do something else. Um, and a lot of the time they're not leaving because of you necessarily. Like they might be, but regardless if you send them that they they can refer you on, they can be like, "Oh, that was really nice. Actually, they could give you a great review." So that relationship point is really important. Just how can you make this person like you? Small talk when you're on the calls. Remember their kids' names, things like that, right? Um, and then the final one is efficiency. Now, efficiency, all these these other three here are all kind of like, you know, client facing. Efficiency is down to you, which is how quickly can you get things done? You know, you spoke about you'd be up till 2 am, you know, getting stuff in a week before the deadline. That's efficiency. Now, people might say, "Oh, you shouldn't be up till 2 am doing it." But ultimately, if that's what works and it shows you're efficient, great. All these things feed each other. If you're more efficient, that's going to give them a better perception of you. If you get things in the deadline, if you have a better perception, they might interpret results to be even better than they are. If they like you, then they're going to feel like the stuff they perceive is is even greater. Um, so efficiency is all about like how can you build the systems to make the job you do, you know, uh, you know, better essentially and quicker. Uh, and this is where I think AI is going to be massive. Uh, like if you can fold AI into your own workflows to get some things done that don't need as much like personalized attention. If you can get that stuff done much more quickly, things like uh giving them um, you know, better reports and like data entry each week, if you can automate that with AI and you send them like a weekly report, which you wouldn't do before, it doesn't take you any extra time because you got AI doing it, but they perceive that as like, oh, they're keeping me >> invisible improvement in their business and it's associated to you. >> Exactly. So, you just need to show them these things. So th those are the four things I tell my my um team to focus on. You know, make sure like you're kind of trying to balance those. >> Um and the most kind of uh the most important thing I think is that whenever no matter who you're working with, no matter what client you've got, no matter what kind of relationship you're you're trying to build, at the end of the day, just think how do I delight this client? Like how can I make their their life so much more easy? How can I show that I am the one shining light they have in this business? And whether that's getting things in early, making them feel good, giving them great results or whatever, like do it. Um, so you can't go very far wrong if you're just trying to make your clients happy. Um, and I think that the care square is how how I think about it, but ultimately you can come up with whatever system you want as long as you're making that person feel good. And as you say, it becomes a delight to to work with you. Workflows and systems really is just basically everything in this business. It's like once you have the skill of writing, maybe that's that's like a skill thing, but after you have the skill of writing as a carpenter, every type of project in my experience these days is just different workflow. >> Yeah. >> Writing adutorials, it's a type of workflow, combination of systems. writing ads, looking at data, making decisions for funnels, whatever it is. It's like get the skill of writing, get good at writing. And then the other side of it, and even there is technically systems and workflows, but get the skill and then ask yourself which copyriters or which people have the workflows and systems that I need to execute this at the highest level. Because that's really like how I learn everything these days is I I I just don't like you can get a coaching course and you can learn from a coach like a from a course. I mean I can chat to you and say, "Hey man, >> so what are your creative engine? What's your creative engine system? Like walk me through a couple of your workflows." >> Then I'll see like how you do it, you know? >> And once I know how you do it, >> there's a level of okay, I'm going to I'm going to tweak this part of my process. I want to do this piece that was missing for my workflow. >> Yeah. And that's really I would say that that that's like 10k and beyond is just a collection of workflows and systems and then and then like maybe 50k beyond is just like having people doing that for you >> 100%. Like literally could not agree more and that's been the biggest mindset shift for me in the last I would say two years I guess. Um that I mean this this book gets recommended a lot. Um but like there's a book called The E-Myth and like I don't I don't tend to recommend books because like I tend to like I kind of tend to see like when people recommend books >> the guy with the wears the hat again. What's his name again? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> But but like that I I'm actually I'm actually not a massive fan of how that's written that book personally. Like I was reading it and I I'm very I'm quite cynical. I'm very like analytical and I'm a bit like it was written a bit fluffy fluffy for me. But the the core message in that book I was just like oh my god this makes so much sense and it's to build systems that you could replicate if you were starting another business like picture the business you have as a franchise you know imagine that you what we're doing imagine that you decided to do this in a different country for example or like in a different niche or whatever that >> changed the game for me cuz I then started thinking about okay how can I systemize this and now you know my my notebook I've got in the other room you know here like in that notebook uh it must been a couple months ago now but like I I just note down I was like okay how how do I actually make money like let me break that everything down because my mind the way my mind works and it always has is I always break things down into their smallest possible parts like each you know like the atoms of whatever I'm looking at and ask myself what is that in itself what does it do and like how does it function what are the principles behind it I have quite like a socratic method >> for this when I was looking at my own cold outreach and what worked even if I didn't know what I was doing at the time I broke down to okay How did that work and what is that? So then I go, well ultimately you need to grab attention. That's one of the things you need to do. Well, how does someone grab attention? Okay, well let's think about all the different ways. And I would go all the different ways I'd ever grabbed attention or I'd seen people grab attention. And then I would just ask, what do these have in common? And I realized there were really two fundamental things that you can grab attention through. Either relevance, eg saying something that people already care about or see as relevant to them. >> Uh a really really basic infantile example of that is calling someone's name. You might say, "Hey, Matthew." >> You turn around. That's relevant. You know, if I if I said, you know, Daniel, if I shout Daniel in a space, you'd assume that I was talking to someone else. It's not relevant. That's the one way you can grab attention. But that expands into other kinds of relevance like telling people about, you know, mentioning something they care about or a problem they have or whatever. Relevance. The other way you can grab attention is difference is doing something so different to what people are used to seeing that they can't not focus on it. >> You know, something either that's really bizarre um like Mr. beast, you know, who is like people should go and watch if they want to like get ideas of good hooks and open loose. Um, how did he get so big is because he was doing stuff that was so bizarre. It was so different to what you'd see. You know, it was like, oh, what happens if we smash two trains into each other? Like, well [ __ ] I don't know what does happen. I've never seen I've never seen that happen. Um, you know, none of his videos are relevant to my life right now, but it's so interesting. It's so different and I've not seen anyone else do it before that I need to watch this guy do it. So those are fun the two fundamental parts of attention and you you know I get people talk about oh what about intrigue what about this and I always say like doesn't matter what you give me anything I will either tell you if it's being relevant or if it's being different or if it's being both you know because like intrigue ultimately is just a consequence of one of those two things something becomes intriguing because you first of all grab attention >> but anyway the point is the reason I explain that is just to show like that's how I that's how my mind works I'm always breaking things down and thinking what are these things in and of themselves when we look at the creative engine system for example >> what's actually going to bring you Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Like don't don't worry, man. I've got you. I've got you. Do >> you have a system for this? >> But have a before this I planned this out. I wrote this. I was like, "What's he going to ask me? Where am I sitting?" Um, but like the creative engine system, >> the way I've developed that over the last few years is I've just asked myself, "Okay, all the ads I've ever run." And, you know, I've I've run more than 50,000 ads. So, I like I I have run so many different campaigns. I've done so many different like pieces of creative and copy and scripts and everything. I had such a massive thing to and I I probably spent a month going through like all the ones I could still get my hands on that I'd done. And I just broke everything down. It's okay, what does this mean? What parts of an ad are there? How do we grab attention? All this kind of stuff. And then I asked myself at a strategic level as well, like creative strategy, if we're looking at a brand's creative strategy and how much they're running ads, what things matter. Broke everything down and then I built the system around it. So in my in my notebook as as I was saying like I have this method of how I make money and my system again even my even when I'm analyzing this stuff it still becomes a system. So my system for making money >> is I think I think it's end up being five steps I think. First thing is just to identify problem. That's the biggest thing. Identify a problem. Uh I can't I can't remember who said it um but there was a when I was >> and this is the CES too right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, like this so like um this is exactly like how the CES came to pay like this system. I think okay, what's a problem? You know, a problem is right now like people need more ads. They think they need more ads. They think that creative strategy is the problem. So I was like, "Okay, [ __ ] Well, let's come up with a system for it." Okay, first of all, so what's the problem? They feel like they need a better grasp on creative strategy. That's the problem. Okay, cool. Um and I I remember when I was when I was first copyrighting, I remember hearing the phrase problems and markets. I think it was Gary Benvvenger who said that. Um, uh, don't don't quote me on that though, but but regardless, like I remember hearing that and going that's a really cool way to think about it. Like if there's a problem, you can sell something. So one, identify a problem. Two, this sounds really obvious, but like come up with a solution for that problem. Like and I can't tell you how to do this. It's really going to depend on the problem, but as long as you can solve it, you can then make a ton of money from it. So for example, with the creative engine system, like problem is people think they need more creative right now. So the solution is okay let us in it in ourselves build a system like let's let me come up with loads of different ways that we can help with that >> within the creative venture system which again we can talk about in more detail like um there are three kind of pillars of creative strategy that I see there's volume there's diversity and there's relevance within that each ad has three fundamental variables that make it successful or not that's the idea of the ad the style of the ad the hook of the ad and then at the very >> was the first one >> uh the idea the style the hook um and the very top of that pyramid you've got like an avatar. We can talk about this in a little bit but um okay like that um that's kind of like where I was kind of coming up with the solution like how their problem is they feel they need more creative okay let's come up with a solution which allows them to see how they can produce more creative in a way that makes sense for meta for example that's me come up a solution step three you build a system for that so for me that ended up being the CES so I came up with all these great things and these solutions now I build it into an actual system which can be followed >> so it's problem >> step one step two is identify solution systematize it. >> Yep. Build the system. Um like and put it into SOPs like what how does it actually work? Imagine like with ETH if I was creating this for a whole other business, how would I come up with this? >> Step four is you delegate and train. Like that's the that's the fourth step. This is for me now. Like what I used to just do was those first three steps often unknowingly. Now my mindset is I now need to delegate and train because ultimately if I just build a system and I do it myself, >> that's awesome and that worked for me for ages. But I'm limited to how much I can make from that because it's I'm trading my time for doing that stuff. Yeah, I I can automate some stuff, but ultimately it ends with me because I'm the bottleneck. I have to do everything. >> So the next logical step and the part of my career I'm in now and I have been for the last, you know, a couple of years is >> I now need to train other people to operate the system and just delegate anything to them. So with local businesses, for example, which is one of my agencies what we're doing at the moment, um I don't now have to get on and talk to local businesses. I didn't have to look at their contracts. I didn't have to send them anything. I didn't have to sell them. I didn't have to do the work for them. That is a system that I used to I I didn't have a problem. Came up with a solution, built a system that I used to maintain and operate myself. Now my team do that. >> So that means all I have to do is hire more people to occupy more spaces. Then they can sell to more people, you know, or more businesses and I just skim that margin off the top. So, as long as I'm paying for those people and and everyone who I employ paid really well and there's incentive bonuses there, but there's still not there still, you know, a 10 20% margin on the top of that that I can then take for myself. So, all of a sudden, I'm not a limiting factor anymore. I can just replicate this time and time again. Different niches, different locations, different whatevers. Um, so that's four is is train, delegate. And then number five, um, because I think it's still important to like be involved in in some way. Number five is basically sell, sell, sell. How can I sell this to more people? Now, first of all, this can be a self perpetuating cycle where my team can go and sell to more like local businesses. That's awesome. But then also, can I sell it in other ways? Can I open up like conversations with a local business union where I can say, "Hey, I'm actually going to I'm going to license this to you and I'm going to allow you to use this in your own places." Or can I make video content? Can I create YouTube uh videos or can I um write VSSLs myself to try and sell this in a better way? Because I think as a as a founder, a business owner, what we want to call it. For me, I always talk about the three S's. There's um system, selling, and strategy. Like those are the things I'm preoccupied with. If I'm preoccupied with execution, which I am for some clients because I enjoy it, but like and I think it's important to stay sharp. But if I'm just doing execution, nothing's going to grow. So, I need to make sure I'm building the systems, which we've just talked about. I'm leading the strategy of the business obviously, which goes on how we actually going to grow. And then I'm selling is the other thing I'll do because so often I'm going to be the most powerful seller. I'm not the only seller. I have sellers within my business who, you know, will will make that cycle keep happening. But the biggest the biggest deals, you know, I've just this morning I was on a call with my team back in the UK. Um we're negotiating a contract with a new client where we're going to get 10% of um of revenue. >> Uh and like I'm involved in that because you know they're they're doing hundreds of thousands a month. So, I need to be involved in that because I'm like, well, this is really important and I need to show they're going to feel more respect if it's the CEO coming and talking to them about this stuff. So, I'm involved in selling. >> So, those are the five steps for me. That's how I get rich now. Essentially, that's how I'm going to do it until I find something better. But for me, it's just >> problem, solution, systemize, delegate, and then sell it. >> So, over the last year, I've seen something I've never seen before. Copyriters and marketers, they're making more money than ever before, especially the top 1%. And if you want to be one of them and you want to join us and you want to get, you know, insights into exactly what's happening in our industry and also get my raw and unfiltered thoughts, the stuff that we're not sharing here on YouTube, then apply to join my email list at list.copyrighting.org. And uh yeah, I'll see you in my next email. Now, let's get back to the video. It's interesting with problem and solution. I think a lot of people jump over or like brush over it real quick because they're like, "Oh yeah, okay, I got a problem. Okay, I got a solution. System time." I found when I've done this because I built about 130 systems for copyrighters like on different processes and copyrightiting the first 10 was so so quite easy because I knew like low lowest hanging fruits problems I was solving but later on the biggest challenge I had was isolating what exactly is the problem >> and that's why I love that you say that there's five steps it's like problem and solution are like important steps to think about because sometimes you don't even need to solve the thing that you think you're solving. because you don't even identify what exactly the problem is. And it's like especially with client acquisition is like a lot of copyrighters they say well >> my problem is I need to close clients. >> It's like okay isolate that though. >> What exactly is the issue there? >> Do you have an issue with finding businesses that need your services or do you have an issue with getting on the sales call? >> Yeah. >> Or do you have an issue with the way you present yourself? Like where exactly is the issue in your client acquisition? because that in itself is a model and then there's like systems within >> that thing. So it's like I think that's the that's definitely something I would love to bring to your attention if you're watching this is like pay attention to when you solve a problem there's the bigger problem which is like how do I make more money as a copyriter but then like identify within that like you said like okay where's the gap in your client acquisition are you are you approaching the right businesses yes okay are you presenting yourself as the the perfect solution for exactly what they're looking for right now which is great strategy Right. So, it's like, you know, you should position yourself for that >> and then and then we go into the next steps. So, I love that. Okay. >> But again, just to reiterate exactly what you're saying, it all comes down to breaking it down. >> Break things down to the smallest parts cuz like you say, >> we know we get people in our like our Discord server all the time saying like, >> "Oh, I can't get clients." It's like, "Okay, what have you done?" >> And they go, "Oh, I've sent this email." And it's like, "Okay, have you have you research like you researched that client?" No. Okay. Well, start there first of all. But as you say, people just want to they want to make they want to make things easy for themselves. >> What's the best outreach email? >> Exactly. >> You know, >> I can give you my favorite at some point. But but anyway, yeah. So, no. So, yeah, I 100% agree. >> Yeah. So, then and really appreciate this has been really really valuable so far. Before we wrap up, I'd love to get an idea of what the CES is then because we kind of talked about it briefly, but when you talk about creative strategy, like how should carpriters or media buyers or basically anybody involved in that aspect of the business like when you're generating lots of, you know, when when you're producing ads and you're running them, what's this? What's what are those three sort of steps or you said it's three steps, right? >> Yeah. I I use a lot of threes and often it just tends to be like, you know, I don't believe in fate, but three comes up a lot. It really does in these things. Um >> but yeah, so I mean I'll give you an overview of this. So first thing to say is like you know the CES it's something I I have produced over the last three years you know it's it there's dozens if not hundreds of like documents and processes that are part of it. Obviously I train my team on it through videos and stuff as well. So it's very big. It's not it's not something you can you know like master in an afternoon >> but >> you can certainly understand it in an afternoon. And it's it's a it's a kind of um expansive web of all these different processes and and and roles and like what you would the instructions you would give to different roles within a creative team for example and you know we talk about like the um the core four um roles within creative strategy tends to be creative strategist designer video editor copywriter those are the four like roles but you can have one person do all of those you can have two people do all of those you know in different ways um so there's all these different things within the CES so obviously we're not going to be able to cover all of it uh the most important concepts. The first one is I'm going to take you through two. The first one is the creative pyramid which we we talked about briefly. Um and then I'm going to go into specifically within the creative pyramid the three variables of ad success because for copyriters watching this I think it's so important that you understand this to get good at creative strategy. >> Okay. >> So creative pyramid like I said we've got the three pillars. Now the pillars are when you take a step back and look at creative strategy. >> When you say three pillars, you're talking about like like permit. >> Yeah. Like at the very bottom at the very bottom. So the the bottom layer of the I should probably call them something else to the pillars, but like I throw so many names. >> I love permits. Permits perfect for our space. >> There we go. Oh yeah. Yeah. No, this is not pyramid selling. Don't don't go and sell other courses or the copyrighters. Um but yeah, so the bottom of the pyramid, you've got the three, you know, those three pillars I talked about. You've got volume, diversity, relevance. Those are the three things that ultimately you need to think about your whole creative strategy in terms of volume. We've spoken about most in this interview. Like we've talked about you need more ads out there. Um now >> take more shots. >> Yeah. Exactly. Why is that? So we're going to I'm going to focus on meta just because Meta tends to be the biggest platform people talk about when they talk about creative strategy. >> Yeah. >> Um but Meta um reward volume. Meta reward you taking more shots as you say. Uh, and that's because they don't know what's going to work. We don't know what's going to work. No one knows what's going to work. I always say when you're a creative strategist, you should think of yourself as a professional guesser. That is your job. Like you are professionally guessing. There is no single like >> method or formula that's going to work every time. You're just throwing stuff out there and seeing what works. So volume is important because it means you could take more guesses. And you know if you were if I said guess a number that is in my head between one and 100 would you rather take one guess or would you rather take 10 guesses? It's it's that simp it's that kind of simple idea. That's why >> okay that makes sense. So basically the big idea here is for cooperators the reason you're doing volume is not because you're just doing more because more equals better. It's it's about how many educated guesses can you take to create enough gases that one of them is going to hit and then you're going to have some data to say like double down there. >> Exactly. >> That's it. >> Yeah. Exactly. And so volume is important. The other thing just on a technical side of it, Meta rewards volume. As for all the evidence we have, you know, I I've spoken to a couple of like MES developers. I've been inside kind of Meta's I think they call it like creative strategy camp where they were kind of actually communicating how the their new Andromeda system works. You know, I've been inside those things and to the best of our understanding, Meta rewards volume because they want, you know, as much as we kind of demonize Meta and we'll say like, oh, you know, they're only after themselves and stuff like, yeah, they are out for themselves and they are after more money, but they want you to make money because the more money you make, the more money you spend on ads. >> Mhm. >> So volume is important and we have evidence just meta rewards volume. But that brings us to our second point, which is diversity. Because it's no good just throwing out the same kind of ad again and again and again. And diversity is by far the biggest problem brands have in my experience. You know, bearing in mind in the last year, >> I've spoken to probably 200 ecom stores. >> Um, and it's the biggest problem they have. 80% of them all have this problem. They just do not know what else they should be testing. So, if you're a copyriter watching this and you you're thinking about creative strategy, the simple act of giving a brand more ideas and being able to show them things that are different enough that Meta will care about is a huge benefit. Um, I keep I've mentioned the word Andrometer a couple times, so I'm going to explain that briefly. Meta came out with an update to their algorithm, their PPC algorithm called the Andrometer update. In very, very basic terms, there are two main things it does. Firstly, um it looks at every single ad that has been put on its platform on Meta and it categorized them by two things. First of all, it looks at um I believe I I might get the word slightly wrong. I can't remember exactly what they call it, but the first thing it looks at is an entity ID. An entity ID means how am I classifying how is the algorithm classifying this ad. For example, let's say you've got a static ad. So, you know, just an image ad and there's a pair of sunglasses and in the background it's just a white background and it's got a line of copy at the bottom which has a percentage off, right? That's the ad. >> What people used to think they could do was let's put out 10 more ads like that and that would be volume and that that would be enough. That would be great. So, they would put out one with a yellow background. They'll put one out where the copy is a little bit different. They'll put like a different pair of sunglasses on there and maybe like change the angle of them. But now after the Andromeda update, Meta would classify all of those kinds of ads. No matter how many you put out there, no matter what brand is putting them out there, they would classify them under the same entity ID. >> And if you have the same entity ID as another ad, Meta will punish you as they look. Exactly. >> So in terms of what they on the technical side of it, >> no, like more more so like okay, so let's say we have an let's say we run >> let's say you're a copyriter. I'm a cop and I'm working within the cop >> and I give them 10 static ads. Okay. And I'm involved with the designer and we design them and we got 10 and they're like one's green, one's blue, one's yellow, one's red. >> Yeah. >> When when they get put together like that, why is it that they're they're like punished? Exactly. Like when you say that that's like >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So it's because meta have a better chance of finding ads and again they they want you to get ads that win. That's an important point. They want you to spend money or they want people to spend money on you. They know that they have a better chance of finding something that works if ads are so very different from each other than if they're similar. Yeah. >> And the analogy I always use is imagine that you show someone an ad. Okay. And then they go away for a week. They go on a vacation. >> If they come back >> and you show them >> another ad, but they go, "That's that's just that's similar to the ad. That's the same ad I saw before." Then you've done the job badly. If they come back and they say, "Oh, that's a new ad. Yeah, I've not seen that one before. You've done it well." It's that kind of all of this comes back to like a person- centered approach. Like we're still human brains and we have to decide where to spend money. Um so Meta want you to take more different guesses because it's more likely that someone will convert. And the reason is yeah the reason is very simple which is that um if you see the same ad or the same kind of ad like 10 times, it blends into the background. You start to ignore it. Whereas if there are 10 very different ads, even if they're off the same product, one might grab your attention. one might just cut through and go, "Oh, I've never thought about like that way or that's actually a good point. I'm gonna click on this now." So that's what met want which why diversity is important. >> So every single time that they put an ad in front of you, there's a higher probability that you're going to engage with it in some way than if it's all just stuff that you >> see all the time. So if I were to write like if I come up with 10 and they're all exactly the same, you know, even though this might not be exactly how it works on the back end, just like a simple way I I can think about it is >> why would I want to um if I'm if I'm meta and this person's already seen this format, why would I want to use that ad slot on their on their feed to show them something that they're most likely going to just speed past when I can show a better ad there and actually get paid more from from an advertiser because that ad is there instead. >> And even worse than that, >> even worse than that, >> Meta thinks, >> why should I show that ad to a new audience? Because I've already got data that it doesn't really work with this. >> So, like, why would I even bother showing it to more people? So, that's why. Yeah. So, they're just like, okay, we just won't spend money on it then. And so many businesses come to me and they go like, >> you know, our budget's not spending. We've got our caps really high and like we've got a daily budget of, you know, $10,000, but like they're just not spending. The money's just not getting spent. And it's like, yeah, cuz Meta has decided your ads aren't going to perform. So why are they going to waste those slots on you as opposed to someone else who's going to do better and then spend more just throw money anyway? Like they want to give you also a good shot. >> So that's thing. So So you got the the entity ID. I think it's entity. See the identity entity. I think it's entity ID. And then on the other side, you've got I think what they call the creative ID. Um which is um just like uh every single ad has a has its own, you know, classification. So it has its own number. But it used to be they only had that. Now they're they're grouping them. So you really need to look at like how how do I make different stuff? So that that's one thing the Andrometer update did. The other thing the Andromeda update did um which is actually making life harder for media buyers is um it is essentially making it easier to do media buying for like brands and the media buying algorithm is much better. So it's much better at getting um you could just give it an ad. >> Just say go and run this. >> Just go and run it. Give it an ad. Go run it. and have to tell people what the audience >> exactly that Meta will scan the copy, look at the creative and it will go, "Oh, it's probably going to be good for these kind of people." So that's the other thing and we won't talk about it too much today because that's a whole other topic. But like um so yeah, anyway, so that's that's the first thing to understand about like the Andromeber update. The key is diversity. That's the point. You need to diversify your ads more. So that's why it's the second big pillar. So how do you diversify? Um we're going to come back to how we diversify when we talk about that second layer of the pyramid. >> The third pillar is relevance. Relevance kind of goes without saying this is it's the core of good copy. >> It's like talking to the ideal customer. >> Yeah. Like at what do they actually care about? There's no good in positioning a product in a certain way if your audience don't care about it. You need to do your research to figure out what they like. >> So volume, uh, diversity, relevance, those are the three pillars. One level above this, this is where you get what I call the variables of ad success. So that was thinking about strategic sense, making sure that you have enough volume in your ad account, your ad account is diverse enough, making sure that the ads you run are relevant. That's kind of looking at an account level. Now we look at an individual ad level. um the three variables that work idea, style, hook or the three variables that you should focus on >> because one of the biggest problems I see >> at the copyrightiting level, creative strategy level, brand level is that people over complicate how to produce at. They throw things at me like, "Oh, we have an angle. We have a sub angle. We have an avatar, an idea, a message, we have like a a hero story, we have a narrative angle." Like, and it's like they'll when they're planning, when they're creating their briefs for an ad, they'll have like seven, eight different things and they're like, "All of these need to, you know, >> check mark all of them." >> Yeah. Check mark all of them. And like, we need to, this is what we would test. So, if we were testing, if we were AB testing, we would like just change this and it it's a new ad. >> And it's such a massive mistake to think about it that way. >> I like that. Um, yeah. Simplify it. So again, this was my Socratic method of like thinking about, you know, how how do I make this a system? I was just like, what actually matters when it comes to ads? What are the three well I didn't think three, but like what are the things that fundamentally change an ad? >> Number one, the idea. Now again, this is semantics, so like you can you can say your own words for it, but like the idea is essentially what are you actually saying? What is the point you're making? What is the message you're getting across? Eg if I said in my ad um headaches question mark that is a fundamentally different idea from me saying nosebleleeds question mark saying two very different things focusing on two different things. So that's one. The next is style. The style is how do you actually communicate that? In what way are you getting that across? So for example let's take the headaches example. We could just have big capital letters headaches question mark. >> Or we could have uh an image of someone, you know, like that with, you know, the brain kind of like coming through as a bit of a diagram and an arrow pointing to it with like, you know, a pain symbol or whatever. >> Um >> the message is still fundamentally the same. Like, you know, the idea is the same. It's trying to target people who care about headaches, but the way we've presented that, >> it's like a delivery mechanism almost. >> Exactly. Yeah. And and if that helps to helps you or, you know, you guys watching to think about it in that way, you do it, you know. Um, so that's the idea. That's the style. And then the last is hook. Now the hook in videos, very obvious what a hook is. It's the first, you know, two to three seconds of an ad. Um, and think about that almost like as your headline. That is going to change more than anything else. That's going to change how people perceive your ad because like we're attention machines. Like we need to show we need to know that something is worth our time to watch within the first couple of seconds, the first time we see it. So, the hook is a really important thing to to test and to move around with an image, with a static ad. Um, think of the hook more as like, is there like a single asset or a combination of assets in your image that grab attention more than anything else? And that's the thing that you could change around. Does it fundamentally change the ad? And for each of these variables, that's the thing you always need to keep back in mind. What's going to fundamentally change the ad? >> That's how we we tick off that diversity piece. Um, and that's all you need to have a really good creative strategy is those three things. >> So, if I just quickly jump in here, right? So, we're talking idea versus hook. Idea is the general direction of what the ad's about fundamentally, right? The fundamental theme of the ad. Y >> and then the hook would be >> how do you go in? So, for example, let's say we're talking about um let's say, you know, sore neck and we're selling a pillow, right? Yep. So, if we were selling a pillow and it's sore neck, the idea would be something around the idea of like let's say the idea could be we're talking about the cervical discs being compressed. That's like the big the big general message of the ad. But the hook could be um it could be one lady waking up like doing this or it could be here's what's really happening every night when you sleep on your cervical disc and it like zooms in to those. Okay. So, the hook is like that that first >> Exactly. And that and and that just goes to show how important it is because like that's that's why I have it in its own section because that first few seconds can really change it. You can have >> but it's the same idea for both of those potentially. >> Yeah. Yeah. So so this this way to think about it is like um and I have and this is what I mean about where the CES system gets so in depth and so massive because hooks have all of their there are five types of hook you know they all have their own like you know little nuances that you need to be aware of within ideas. We can talk about the message we can also talk about the proof. There's so many different things we can talk about here, but if you just want a really quick idea of how this all works and to get better than 90% of people, these three things. And yeah, when we come back to the hook, like the way in which you initially communicate with someone, you could have a great ad, but if your hook is only like okay or not very good, doesn't matter. The rest of the ad doesn't matter. Whereas you can have a great hook and it really grabs attention, the rest of your ad's okay, that's probably going to perform much better. So that's why I have hook as its own thing. But the fundamental here is the thing to understand is like each of these three things if you just focus on coming up with different idea ideas different concepts I should say for each of these. So okay here's 10 different ideas that we could test. Here are 10 different styles we test them in. Here are you know three or five different hooks that we could do for each one. all of a sudden, you know, I'm not very good at maths, but like you could times those and you have like, you know, >> 40, 50 ads or whatever. >> All of a sudden, or 300, 400 ads or whatever. Um, just from some very simple ideas that fundamentally change the ad. That's the key. >> So, you should spend time on each of those elements specifically. Don't just like throw random stuff. >> Yeah. >> So, really think about like different styles. And this is where it comes back to, you know, I mentioned earlier like the the the kind of um the part and against another three, but like the other parts of creative strategy to me are like um you need to do the research first of all, then you need to conceptualize things and then you need to execute. you know the research is going to that's going to inform all these other things we just talked about like okay well here are we saw these eight messages coming up loads from you know I talk about IVOC data which is like indirect voice of customer going into Reddit forums and YouTube comments and you know like stuff online to just see what people are complaining about when they talk about sorne and that can you can find some gold in there like everyone's talking about in this way that becomes an idea the styles for example um styles you can uh inspiration from anywhere. It doesn't just have to be ads, you know, like it can be what are certain Tik Tok videos, organic stuff doing. I saw again, we talked about him earlier, like what's a Mr. Beast like kind of way that he's positioning something that's really cool. Um a versus style. So, we're talking about, you know, just say sore neck. Let's just, you know, talk about the idea could be as simple as um I have a sore neck. That could be as that could be it. It can just be like I want to fix my sore neck. The idea can be as simple as that. We could talk about uh a brand like a founder talking to camera and talking about, you know, you've been lied to about what's really causing your neck pain. That's one style. That could be like an expose ad where it's a founder talking very seriously. >> You could have um a versus where you go like, you know, um what's better for fixing a sore neck? Supplements versus, you know, like whatever. >> Still the same still same point fixing a sore neck. You could have a doctor, you know, having an interview like with a patient and it's like done from any kind of narrative, you know, a narrated point of view. You could have a UGC, someone introducing the product immediately and saying like this saved my neck from agony, right? >> All those things, same idea, just talking about a sore neck. And that's the beauty of of the system is like you can you can do this in so many different ways. You know, there's no right or wrong as long as it's an idea people recognize. Don't don't worry about like how to define it. As long as it's an idea people recognize, great. And I've just come up with on the spot four or five different styles right there. >> Hooks, same thing. There are different types of hooks that you can start testing with all this. >> There's a load more we could talk about, but essentially >> that's the thing to to think about. Yeah, >> that creative pyramid. And then the avatar at the top, the ICP, whatever you want to call it, ideal client profile of the pyramid. >> That's top pyramid because like that fundamentally changes how the rest of these might look if you're focusing on >> because you could have multiple avatars that you're selling to. >> Exactly. Um, so like I have a I have a I won't be able to kind of go into this in too much depth. Um, but like I have a um a concept called the content grid which basically combines the ideas and styles into like you know axes. You've got like axis at the top for ideas, axis at the down the side for styles and each intersection >> is a concept for an ad. >> And you know like that is just a way to visualize really well. Um, but within that you could have different content grids for content grid for this audience type with this product. you can have another one an audience type with this product. There's no limit to what you can do here. Um so that's a big part is the creative pyramid of creative strategy. The other big thing to think about is just the system itself, the SOPs. So my CES like we can talk here about concepts all day, but ultimately unless those things can be executed, you know that final stage we talked about, none of this is any good. So the CES I've created a ton of SOPs like super boring stuff but stuff that matters. >> You know how to tag the footage that you are generating where to generate that footage. Do you do it through AI or creators or influencers or yourself >> um those things uh what an asset library is and how to use one. >> What um a feedback loop means what the turnaround time for each stage should be. What a designer's principles needs to be when they're looking at each each style. how to decide what styles you're going to focus on, what batch production is. There are so many individual operational elements that you need to put in to have an effective creative strategy system um that it's impossible just to kind of conceptualize. And I think this is what separates the people who get paid the most from people who, you know, kind of flounder around a bit. If you can come in to a brand like we spoke about earlier and delight that founder with not just giving them fantastic new ideas and concepts they haven't thought about before but also helping them execute on it, building the team for them, um showing them how to implement this on a day-to-day basis. If you can do that, a brand will pay you so much and this is just creative strategy. >> This is just the beginning. >> You know, we can then do their emails and retention marketing and all that stuff. But >> but yeah, so there you go. That's a very brief overview of the CES. Um, you know, I could spend hours and hours talking about this, but I >> imagine that hopefully that hopefully has given you an idea of what a solid crave strategy, you know, needs to look like. >> You know, fundamentally, >> it all comes back to building systems. It goes back to those five things we're talking about. It's like isolate the problem, what's the solution, what is the systematization of that, what's the delegation of it, and then sell. >> And this is this is the next level. Like that's really where you don't become replaceable because a lot of these things that you can break down, I'm sure that there's processes that you use as well once you break it into its individual pieces. >> There's parts where AI can actually help you a lot with the process. >> And I was talking to a copyriter literally this morning. I was reviewing some of his copy. I was like, "Show me your research." So he opened his research and it's a chat prompt with Claude. I was like, "That's not your research. That's Claude's research." Like if you depend on the AI that way, you're basically replacing yourself because you're you're literally >> building through the AI. So it's only a matter of time before they say, "Well, why don't we just hire like a manager to do the exact same thing as what you're doing?" But when you when you build it this way, the way you do, I just can't honestly see how AI is ever going to get like AI is not going to build that. You know what you've just built here in front of me? You literally explained like AI is not going to come up with that stuff by itself. You need to you need to direct and put the pieces in place and >> and you need to be the part of that. That's um so yeah no it's it's just really really good stuff. >> I mean on the a on the AI point like people understand like AI you know it's not it's not magic you know it's not alien it's not an organic kind of um process which in itself is coming up with novel ideas. It's having to take it from stuff that already exists. It has to do that. Most stuff that exists is [ __ ] You know, like you have to understand that most copywriting knowledge, most creative strategy knowledge, most opinions people share, most standard ways of doing it is [ __ ] And AI doesn't have a way of separating the [ __ ] from the good like yeah with with you know questions where there's a definite answer where purely logic can be used. Yeah, it can do that fine. It can tell you what the laws are around like putting together a contract. It can tell you, you know, how many presidents there have been and things like that. It can't ultimately decide what what's going to work and what doesn't because it needs access to data that is reliable. And data that's reliable with this kind of stuff is a human being trying different things again and again for different clients. And how many people actually put out Yeah. How many people then put real data out into the world? How many people actually share honest opinions? M >> AI is just scraping what people put out there, which is bollocks. >> All my best stuff with AI has been stuff that I've already built out internally for myself >> and then and then I load AI. >> It's an amplifier. It's a multiplier. Like you can, you know, I love it. AI is fantastic and I I genuinely believe like people who can utilize AI as as we're doing in the business like will become millionaires. Definitely like no doubt about it. Like the people who are doing that, you know, they can follow in they can get me to the path, you know, follow my path of becoming a millionaire but hopefully do it even even more quickly. But like um the thing has to be like it has to be on sound principles first of all and you can't shortcut that. You can't cheat that. And another thing to all of this the AI conversation is that um people ultimately like working with people. Yes, you can save costs by hiring AI and that's definitely a thing. But people want someone to be accountable cuz if AI [ __ ] up, >> you can't shout at the computer. You can't sue open AI, you know, >> like they you sign a contract saying, you know, when you agree to sign up to these things, they say this can make mistakes. >> A person if a person makes mistakes, well, you've got someone you can point to, you can blame, you can feel good about blaming, you can rectify stuff with them, you can I know it sounds a bit scary, but like you >> somebody's carrying me. >> Yeah. Someone's carrying it. You become accountable. So, I think that um people aren't going to stop working with people, but you need to put yourself in a position when you are the person who's doing the replacing rather than the person who can get replaced. And that comes from breadth. I think >> this has been fantastic. This has been a master. >> So much fun. Thank you so much. Thank you. I really love it. >> I knew this was going to be a good conversation. I we probably didn't talk as much about creative strategy than I initially intended, but it seems like there's a lot of us to talk about here. So, I have absolutely loved it. So, thank you so much, Matt. >> Yeah, thank you, too. If you have any further questions for Alex, put them in the put them in the comments and maybe we'll be able to get you back for an on call. Where can someone find you if they want to learn from you? >> Oh man, so people find me in a few places. You can either go to alexmy.com if you want to just like have a look at me. Um, feel free to hit me up on LinkedIn as well. Um, but for copywriting and marketing advice, then uh just search in YouTube copy that. Uh, it's a business own with a couple other people and we we put out a bunch of free advice around copyrightiting and uh and marketing. If you type in Alex M on YouTube, I think I should come up at some point as well. So any of the like YouTube stuff, Alexmy.com, anywhere like that is good to get in touch with me. >> Thank you. Yeah, that was great. >> Thanks so much, Matt. >> Chat soon.