No matter what's on the news, my brain 100% registers it all as theater. >> You had this great line, anybody who thinks they're not susceptible to a scop is completely susceptible. >> If politics was about results, it wouldn't require a lot of attention. It wouldn't require performance. You're watching a play. We'll see how the season ends. We'll see how the, you know, the season finale. We've got understandings of psychology, sociology, therapy, hypnotherapy, neuroanatomy, brain science, and now the last four, 5 years, you've thrown yourself into psychedelics. My first mushroom journey was me trying to just process what consciousness is. I was having between 5 to 10 seizures a day, and these are temporal lobe seizures. You're not shaking or anything like that. You lose all muscle control. It's terrifying because like you're losing control over your whole entire body and your mind at the same time. It takes me 3 or 4 weeks to come back to normal. My seizures stopped within 4 days of taking methylene blue and mushrooms. Within just a few months, all of my memories like resort sorted themselves out. The most modern discoveries in quantum mechanics and quantum neurosychology are starting to prove that our brains are quantum. Like onethird of the particles inside of our brain are existing in some other place. What the is going on? Like where are we in reality? >> Even if it's just I know, I don't know. >> Here's the biggest one. If we can go on a little deep and tangent please. A little deeper than before. When the last time we we did a podcast together, you had this great line you're talking about. Anybody who thinks they're not susceptible to a scop is completely susceptible to a scop. >> Yeah. >> And I was thinking a lot about this as well because, you know, with the last election, it seemed that things were just so bad. Like when you have an understanding of scops and and how we're being lied to and manipulated, the last administration was so bad. It was so egregious. I mean, it didn't even seem like our president was our president. there were changing bodies and faces and earlobes and chins and it was so [ __ ] bizarre. So hoping that Trump could be somebody different, you know, with my, you know, with some serious caveats and reservations, I threw my support and energy and belief behind it, hoping. Um, and now I feel like, oh, I was completely SCP. Um, and I know that you had kind of I don't know if you still are, but for a time period you were kind of in the like the outer inner circle like going to Mara Lago and getting invited some of the think tank things and seemed to have some interaction with Cash Patel and maybe Danny Bojingo. I never know how to pronounce his name, but like how are you feeling as a SCOP expert? Did you get a little SCOP? Did you get caught or did you were you just going along for the to see what would happen the the career um aspirations and trajectory like given what's happened with the administration? How are you feeling right now? Did you get hustled? >> I don't think I did. I I only got involved with people that are adjacent to the administration through trial consulting. Uh so it's not like they sought out me for any political reason at all. But I have this thing in my brain where no matter what happens, no matter what's on the news, my brain 100% registers it all without any exception as theater. >> And there's no exception in my brain. Even if like there's real stuff going on, my brain registers it all as theater. And the one thing I I told my kids is if politics was about results, it wouldn't require a lot of attention. It wouldn't require performance and cameras and all this kind of stuff. They would just do the results and and that would be important. Uh so no matter what I see and the moment like I start to like I hear something on the news and I'll start to feel like, oh [ __ ] that's going to be amazing. I get excited about it. that little part of my brain smacks it down and be like that you're watching a play. >> You're watching a movie right now. >> And if you just kind of approach it from that angle, you're you're just kind of like, well, we'll see how the season ends. We'll see how the you know the season finale. >> Yes. >> And that's what it is. How long did that uh that kind of intellectual now into emotional uh process transformation take from really like when you first recognize it? Because I think like Cal and I like oh we know this is theater but I still get caught up. I'm like damn it really come on you know. >> Yeah. I think uh it it took maybe a year of just like only because I dug into it. M. >> So if you just read Plato, he warned us about all this [ __ ] >> so long ago. Plato invented the matrix, >> but you know the concept of the movie The Matrix with the Plato's allegory of the cave. >> And uh that I have merch in our store, like one of our t-shirts that we sell at my company uh has a a big logo on it right here that says Plato's Cave Search and Rescue Team. >> Yes. U just because I I kind of got addicted to I want to wake as many people up as I can. It feels like and I don't say this like oh look how awake I am. >> Um I'm not awakened fully. I don't think there's anybody 100% awakened or anything but I just have this craving in me to dedicate my the rest of my life to exposing the theater of it all. And we don't need to like expose a whole lot of people and name names and be one of those YouTubers who pisses people off and leaves you upset about stuff, but just exposing like all if you go back to one quote from Alan Watts and I have no idea what the your question even was that I'm answering right now, but >> the you the how long did the genesis take in your own >> Yeah. mind and demeanor before like I understand we're living in theater to like now being completely emotionally objective and not getting caught up. You said about a year. >> Yeah. >> And I've never put a bumper sticker on any of my vehicles, but I did finally about a month ago. >> And it's an Allen Watts quote. It says, "Almost all of our suffering comes from taking very seriously what God built for fun." Uh, and I think that's that's the real thing. Like if if somebody is actually awakening, there's no moment of enlightenment where you feel better than anybody. You just be like, "Wow." And you kind of feel a little embarrassed like, "I took all that [ __ ] so seriously. I thought everything was such a big deal. I thought I was such a big deal. Look how special I am." >> U, and then you just, it's so relaxing. I think it's peaceful, but it's I think it's boring at first. Yeah, I agree. I think in in my just journey and certainly not to where you are with the theater. Um I can bite for it a little bit and also the the the uh the kind of overcorrection is like this is all a [ __ ] joke there, you know? So you can get a little bit negative about it. And I think where I've landed is >> holy [ __ ] this is so interesting. And and what I try to remind my friends that are in the inquiry of, you know, certainly with your work and what the [ __ ] is going on, it's like, yeah, it's it's like let's not take it too seriously. Like what a timeline that we're in right now. Holy [ __ ] everything is getting exposed. And instead of going down into the darkness, which I know you and I have talked about going down these rabbit holes, like it's dark and I think it's necessary to explore them, but to live there, you will just see darkness everywhere. But just to get like what you need and pop out of it and then just watch it all unfold and allow everyone to be where they're at and through conversations like this try to meet different people where they're at to further expose what's going on so that they can eventually live in this this orientation that okay like let's just be love and light like let's not come in again too negative on this stuff. I mean, some people you do need to shake their shoulders a little bit, be like, "Dude, what the [ __ ] How do you not see this, but also it's I think it's fascinating." And yeah, there's a lot of dark [ __ ] out there. There are people that are being manipulated just like we have been throughout the course of our lives. And yeah, there was this moment like, "Wow, what a [ __ ] idiot. I believed all this stuff." And then when you >> thought it was all real. when you can see the humor in it and just laugh at yourself like holy [ __ ] >> The hard part is children, man. It's like, >> you know, you've got you've got two teenagers still. >> Three. >> Three. >> Yeah. >> So, >> well, you asked this question. >> Yeah. We tal we talked about this at men's group but I I I can kind of do my spiel in a minute but how do you the whole even though it might have been false the the fabric and foundation of society that we could have some stable footing of like when we were all kids you know we might have thought our government was scummy but we didn't necessarily now have evidence that they're psychotic baby eating occultists you know uh who gather for sex and blood ritual. you know, >> how do you talk to your teenagers about the world that we're living in? You know, like how how are you counseling and advising them? I'd love to I'm sure a lot of parents would love to hear that. >> Uh, so I I brought them up with one big question in their head about other when it comes to other human beings. So every time we encountered any situation, I would ask them,"What does that person want me to think about them?" So what what do they want to show? And then that was until they were about 9 years old. So they would see bumper stickers on the back of some Subaru or something >> with Marathon running and like Ron John Surf Shop and all those kind of >> Yeah. >> all that kind of stuff. And I and I'd ask my daughter like what what do they want us to think based on this? What does the car want us to think? Not what is it telling us? What does it want us to think? Those are two different things. >> So my daughter would be like, well, uh, I run marathons. I'm healthy. I go surfing. Uh, and it talks about communities, the fraternity they were in. And so it says, I make good friends. I have good friends. I'm in a lot of communities. And it also means I'm a nice person and I'm going to be a good friend to you. and I'd like to be a friend uh to somebody. And then I 10 11 years old, we kept going and like what would they be afraid of if that was true? And that's question number two. >> And then you start seeing so you cannot help but have empathy if you start seeing the world that way. Unless you're a psychopath, like you're seeing it in everybody else but not yourself. Um, so like in the first stages of their life, it's what does what does that thing or that person want me to to feel about them? It's like somebody walking through an airport with really obnoxious, loud clothing on. What do they want me to think? Not I need attention. That's not what they want you to think. >> That's what that's saying. Right? So the difference is like I I need attention or I want you to pay attention to me. And what does that what would they be afraid of if that were true is question number two. So that the way you would answer that is like well what if they didn't if I didn't think what he wanted that would mean what for them that would mean isolation being ignored uh and ultimately being lonely. So we see somebody like that that has this loud [ __ ] on in an airport that's kind of annoying at first and then you realize this is a fear of loneliness. And all of a sudden, you see yourself. You see the loneliness that you're trying to hide, that you hide from your friends. You see the shame that you conceal from from everybody when you're on Zoom meetings or at work. And you're just like, "Holy [ __ ] everybody's suffering. Everyone's suffering." And I think it gives you a tremendous amount of empathy. And the second level of this is just having your kids get into the mindset of being able to zoom out and teaching your kids as early as possible about camera angle. So like if I can just move your camera uh and drastically change your perspective of a situation, I can fix PTSD. That's what fixes PTSD. That's why people go on a giant mushroom uh journey or a psychedelic journey and they're like, "Wow, my PTSD is gone." It's perspective shifting is the only thing that really happens there. So, when we have like loneliness, depression, PTSD, getting pissed off at the world, like you want to uh tell your friends it's not a big deal, like focus like focus on the good things. If you just shift perspective, you can solve so many problems that that people have. and teaching your kids to grab their little camera and be aware, cognizant of I'm looking at this from this little angle right here. I'm zoomed in on one little fiber of this carpet right here. When if I just took your camera and zoomed out like you do on Google Maps to where you can see the stars like behind the the planet and stuff, >> that that fiber is not important anymore. >> Like I start to see, oh, it's not a big deal. So, it's it's all about not just zooming out, but viewing something from a more mature perspective, even if it's in your past. Like that thing happened to you in middle school. I got kicked in the balls in front of a lot of kids in middle school, and it was really embarrassing. And I feel like that permanently scarred me. But just going back and kind of revisiting that from a mature perspective. The perspective shift is the only thing that needs to change. You don't need to like drop a backpack full of trauma and and drop it on the ground. If I just teach my kids and my friends maybe to change perspective and to that they are in control of perspective, you can make such a shift in people's lives. That was a super long answer to your question. >> And I think the followup would be because this is this pertains to what you were bringing up. What about your uh your kids' friends who are coming to you and they're like, "Okay, dude, what the [ __ ] is going on?" and they're living in a home that maybe still believes this is not theater, this is all like, yeah, the government's taking care of you and the FDA is taking care of you and everyone's got your best interest in mind. How do you kind of plant seeds for them? Because they're they're seeing something in you that is more resonant. They don't quite understand it because they've been brainwashed, let's say. How do you start to open that up in a um in an kind of intentional way where you're not breaking their brain when they're not quite ready for it? Even though that may be the best thing to happen. >> Yeah. Uh I would and I have done this with some of my kids' friends and it's just the same question. You're just taking it on a larger scale. You're saying like when you consume this media or when you watch this thing just teaching them to ask themselves the question like what do they want me to believe right now? What are they asking me to believe and what's the assumption that's being made right now? And typically what I'll teach my kids friends is the way I'm a trial I work as a trial consultant. Uh which is where a lot of my income comes from. I know nothing about the law for the record here. Um but when it happen when this happens the way that I am able to win trials and the way that you can persuade anybody if you're a leader or a boss is I just get you to feel clever. That's it. >> So I'll have one idea here and one idea here and I'll I'll get your brain to think, "Oh, you know what? I bet those things snap together like two little Legos. And if I can get you to feel clever, then you will automatically accept the idea because it came from within. Anything that comes from within our own mind, we cannot resist. >> So all I have to get you to do is adopt this new belief without telling you what to think. It's exactly the same as when you're watching the news and they're like, "A local Austin woman found missing today. neighbors report that earlier today she was seen arguing with her boyfriend details after the break. Uh but then like you're watching that and you're like, "Oh, I know what happened." >> And you get that little moment of feeling clever uh just because these two little details got put in front of you. And if you can do that in life, uh you can get people to do a lot. But so instead of doing this to those kids, I'm teaching the kids about when there's two pieces of information and there's no string between them, they make you put the string uh between the ideas. That should terrify you and that should be very scary. The only two things I've ever told my kids should terrify them. Number one, when you have two ideas and nothing in between them and you your brain starts putting them together, number one. And number two is if any grown-up in the world ever asks you to keep a secret. >> Can you can you expand upon the first one where there's um two ideas and then there's not a thread between them? Kind of just flush that out for me a little bit. >> Yeah. So um just like the news thing. So if someone says um this geopolitical conflict is happening at the same time they're saying that this person is in trouble in this country >> and you're not getting a string between them but they they're pushing the ideas close enough together where you're like oh I bet this Saudi prince was involved with this attack on this one thing just because you know ideas are always magnetic um especially if they have any anything in common. So I get any two ideas close enough to each other, they become magnetic in your brain, but you're the one that assembles them. >> Okay. So basically what you're saying is that's that's classic media manipulation. >> Yes. >> So you're you're teaching your kids to be aware of media manipulation. >> Yeah. It's classic manipulation for everything in courtrooms. Uh >> right, >> you could win a lot of trials just getting good at that one skill. >> Right. I had an interesting moment with the my 17-year-old was over with four or five friends and they were all talking about the Epstein files and and the you know at the time of this shooting we're in I don't know the 15th or 16th day of the Iran war and all the kids were talking about it and you know I I asked the kids I'm like all right so they because they said to me one of the kids says like what do we do like you know we're we're we're juniors we're about to be seniors like we play football like we're looking at college is like like what do we do and I was like well interesting time to be alive that's for sure like the foundations that generations before you could stand upon even if they were false there was firm footing there you know and we could build a life and now you're like walking on um an ice sheet that's broken apart and everywhere you step it's unstable and it's tittering and tottering I'm like and there really seems to be like a they know so there there proverbial they there really seems to be a they. >> So I asked the kids, I'm like, "What is it that the they seem to hate?" >> Cuz they seem to definitely hate certain things and point want to point you in certain way. So like, "What do they hate?" And the kids are like I'm like, "Do they seem to hate like vulnerability and authenticity?" Cuz they certainly want you stuck on your phones all the time. They're like, "Yeah." So I'm like, "Well, they do they do they seem to love God or do they seem to hate God?" They're like, "Well, you know, they seem to kind of hate God." Like, do they seem to love prayer and meditation or they seem to hate it? like, well, they seem to hate that. Do they do they want you having like authentic and real connections? They're like with friends and no, they kind of want us on our phones. I'm like, right. Do they want you watching pornography or having like natural romantic relationships where your sexuality can evolve? They're like, no, they kind of want us watching pornography. I'm like, right. Do they want you healthy and robust or do they want you kind of sickly and stupid? They're like, no sick. So, I was like making those connections. I'm like, "So, if you just do the things as a young person that the they seem to hate, you're going to build an amazing life." Like, you're going to have authentic connection. You're going to know when to put your friend your phone down and really connect with your peers and your friends. You're going to put down pornography and you're going to have like natural romantic relationships where your sexuality can involve without some false expectation of what sexuality is supposed to be. you know, you're going to eat foods that feel good and natural to your body. You're going to have clean water and like just embrace your youth. Fully embrace your youth and literally think of the system, the they and all the things that they want you to do and kind of just do the opposite and you're going to [ __ ] rock your teenage years. And until the world completely blows up, go ahead and try to be an all state football player or great at lacrosse or, you know, whatever your aspirations are. Fully engage in them, you know. And it was it was a real like revelation for the kids. But part of it was there like I was questioning them and they were they were putting the pieces together. Like if there really is a they just think of the things that all that the they want you to do and the things that the they seem to hate and just go the other way. >> You need to make that into like a one-page PDF. >> Oh, that would be such a great infographic to kind of visually show all of those things. >> Yeah. >> I'll have my team do it. Actually, I'll have just give me a list and I'll have my team put a really cool graphic together. >> You know what's interesting? I wanted to ask you too. This is like shamelessly self- serving, but product bump >> serve away. No, but my I'm 55 and but like seven years of micro doing have totally transformed the way that I think and draw connection and see the threads that you're talking about like so and you're such an interesting guy. So first you know like kind of like you know school of hard knocks you're in the military as a young person. You had some like ridiculous thing that happened. I remember you told me where you you were collegebound and then something happened in high school and you got thrown way off track over something that was really kind of stupid. Um so military and then you you find this aspiration, this great interest in in in brain study and then you become self-educated going through traditional non-traditional um avenues become this world-class brain expert. So you've got understandings of psychology, sociology, you know, uh therapy, hypnotherapy, neuroanatomy, brain science. You're a leader. And now the last four or five years, you've thrown yourself into psychedelics. >> Yeah. Like how has h talk to us about like what the psychedelics at the macro and micro doing level have kind of done to transform your brain your thought processes your even your emotional you know going from intellectual understanding to emotional resonance because I found that micro doing has totally helped with the intellectual understanding to emotional resonance like what you had said about >> witnessing theater to fully like emotionally understanding this is theater and I'm not going to get too caught I think over time, uh, my first mushroom journey was me, um, trying to just process what consciousness is. And I was having between five to 10 seizures a day. And these are temporal lobe seizures. Uh, so to kind of give you a brief glimpse of what a temporal lobe seizure is, uh, you're not shaking or anything like that. You're just kind of like like you're you lose all muscle control like you just got injected with a paralytic. That's terrifying because like you're losing control over your whole entire body and your mind at the same time and the very beginning of it it's like a roller coaster sensation. like you're just sitting there talking at dinner or something and it's like roller coaster sensation and then deja vu that is so powerful that it feels like everyone in the entire room is setting you up like they all everyone in the room has access to your memories and they're doing something to you on purpose >> and then then the seizure starts and that's like 2 seconds long. It's just a really rapid downhill and the seizure is 60 to 90 seconds. Um, but in that 60 to 90 seconds, you're going to it's like massive psychedelics almost. And in some of these seizures, I remember I have you're getting memories. Let's say you're getting memories from like 35 people's different lives over the course of like 35 years and they're randomly like if we have our memories are a little file cabinet during the seizure. All of those memories from other some other people's life uh other person's life is getting put into your files and all of your folders are getting full of these false memories and then so like if you just if I just have one seizure it takes me three or four weeks to come back to normal where I like I'll remember doing something that never happened in my life. Uh, and then several times I had this one seizure that was recurring where I I would look down. I have memories of looking down and seeing breasts and being a woman. Uh, and I remember I took it somehow out of the seizure one time because seizures come with amnesia. But I know this woman's social security number. I know her phone number, her street address. Uh, I have memories of her being lonely. me. It was me. I remember vacuuming my house. Uh and my wife and I actually went there in in Tennessee and uh it that's that was my house. >> Wait, you went to you you you visited the home? >> Yeah. >> Cuz I've been I think I mentioned this briefly in the last podcast we all did together. I've been in the like literally the immediate aftermath of when you had your first seizure in I think 18 months or two years was when we went out for your dinner. Yeah. >> At your birthday. And it's there's a vibration coming off you, this disorientation. It's like terrifying and heart-wrenching to be around. But when we sat down at dinner and you were kind of integrating a little bit, you were talking about the yellow sweeping the floor. You were in a 1970s kitchen. You were sweeping the floor. You were a woman. Um, and you recalled the yellow post-it note on the old pull lever refrigerator. And you literally knew the numbers. It was a phone number >> on we we and the person we wrapped it in with Rosie wrote down the phone number and she actually tried to call it but then you went even deeper and you you recalled the like street address and location. So is that the home from that seizure you went back to? >> Yes. >> Yeah. Same one >> like third party validation like totally real [ __ ] terrified. >> But I don't claim that it's some past life. I don't claim, you know, I mean, I don't have access to the records or anything, but like I remember being in that house even when we when we looked at it. Um, and I don't I don't claim to know what that is. I think the more certainty somebody has around this [ __ ] the more full of [ __ ] they are. >> Mhm. >> Um, I don't know what that is. >> And like just trying to explain reality itself is hard enough, much less this break from reality. So that was a super long way to just say that I I wanted to start I wanted to do some psychedelics so I can kind of like access that state on demand and kind of start exploring what is consciousness. Uh cuz I just reading about people that get sudden savant syndrome. Have you ever heard of this? >> Mhm. where somebody get in a car accident or something or fall off a ladder and all of a sudden they don't speak English anymore and they speak fluent French and they can play the cello. Um >> I would I would love for any scientist in the world to explain how that's possible. And there are thousands of cases and if there's a if there's a theory that we generate our own consciousness and we we generate our own memories and we don't have access to some collective field. Um, this is a mountain of stuff that says otherwise. A mountain. So, if somebody has a theory that all crows are black, how many white crows would it take to fully and completely obliterate that theory? >> It would only take one. >> And there's not just one single piece of proof. There's just a massive mountain of it. Uh, just that we don't know what consciousness is. Uh, so I got curious about it and my seizure stopped within 4 days of taking methylene blue and and mushrooms and it was just a regular micro dose. And within just a few months, all of my memories like resorted themsel out. like my file clerk, it felt like every time I was doing any journey or something that the file clerk would kind of go down there and take take some hours and hours and go through everything and figure out, oh, that one's not Chase's memory. I'm going to throw it out. This one's Chase's. I'm going to file it up and to kind of get organized again. And I think over time, it's just the level of empathy that I developed. I was >> I don't want to say narcissistic, but I was very self-centered. Uh and I was very much purchased in invested in the idea of separation that I'm separate from you that we're not connected in any way. Uh I need to be better than other people. I want to compete in business instead of collaborate. >> Uh and that's how I started my civilian career is in that kind of in that mindset. And I'm so grateful that I just had access to this stuff. And I mean even John's Hopkins is calling it like the most effective drug they ever tested. I'm probably paraphrasing poorly, but um if you just look at the results, it's the most effective uh psychotherapy drug ever tested in the world. >> Yeah. New thing too with this Russian mice study where increased telmir length by 30% as well. >> Really? >> Yes. And then Brian Johnson um you know the kind of like self-promoting biohacker he did a brain analysis on glucose that we did a full brain analysis and even though his glucose levels were like in the top 1% like his blood sugar corrected over the course of a 6-hour 5 gram mushroom journey from like what would be somebody who's diabetic to completely non-diabetic. So they even think it can correct like blood sugar levels and so forth. It could be a diabetes cure. >> Wow. >> It was crazy. Yeah. >> I had no idea. And this is psilocybin. >> This is psilocybin. This is this is psilocybin. >> Um yeah, I found that I the I have this thing that I talk about um the um the kind of um etheric mycelial network, which is the connection from my heart and like my head and making authentic connection. And over the seven years of micro doing like those fibers are just so much more pronounced and clear and and like I know when to give, I know when to receive. I know when the receptors are just not hitting, you know, they're hitting kind of stone. >> Yeah. >> Which is something I wanted to ask you about with young kids cuz, you know, as a as a as a conscientious dad raised, you know, who's like highly sees the world and all this charade of insanity that's kind of parade and charade of insanity that's happening before us. So if if you can deepen your kids empathy, so like my my son, my my 14-year-old son, there's a kid at school who is so self-promoting and so threatened by other people's excellence and size and physicality and he's always like messing with and testing. And so I've gotten my son to like deepen his empathetic thinking like, okay, why is what's driving this behavior? Why is this person like this? You know, what do you think's going on in their home? So like he's deepened his empathy and he doesn't have like the rage or the anger, but like what does he do about somebody when somebody's still so [ __ ] annoying? So when somebody's so crippled by their own vanity and insecurity and especially as a young person like they're just vomiting that all over you on a daily basis. The part that I fell short on is like I can help him deepen his perspective and his empathy, but I didn't know like I can't tell him to go up and give another 14-year-old a hug in the middle of school. Like that's not necessarily going to work. So, what's your ad like what's your advice on when you when you >> pull the camera out and your children now have the deeper perspective, but they're still dealing with another annoying teenager? Like, how do they handle that? >> I I actually have a thought cuz I think the same thing holds true. I'd be curious to to get your thoughts as well, Chase. >> For adults, >> it's I think it comes down to boundaries and there are different levels to where he should let that kid in. he can still be loving and kind and not his best friend and then just keep him at a distance. And I think part of that awareness for the other kid is maybe he needs to reorient and and it I I don't know. I think there I've made the mistake in the past of I mean I've certainly been like that like [ __ ] that guy, right? And then I've been like a this poor guy. Okay, let me be there and like try to be a good friend >> and then I let them in too far and then I get, you know, I don't want to say I get taken advantage of because I'm actually very active in in that relationship. And so that's on me to to not have the discernment about where does this person actually fit in my world. Yeah. And so I think it can be very much a an empowering thing to be aware of those things, be curious, be loving and empathetic as you said, but also like not trying to [ __ ] rescue or save anybody. Well, I mean, as adults, we can as adults, we can kind of we can let the cat out of the bag and we can talk about it, but like what's a trick for a 14, 15, or 16-year-old who's like who's in like a very kind of like hot, you know, testosterone like interaction with somebody where they're just vomiting their insecurity and and bragging and all like h how would you advise a 14 or 17year-old to kind of handle that when they're in that type of situation? Like what's a technique point? >> Same as an adult. one word, archetypes. Understanding story archetypes. There's only about seven or eight, some say 12, story archetypes that are woven into our DNA. And our brains haven't changed in 200,000 years. So like the archetype of the wounded healer, the savior, the victim, the tragedy mindset, the uh the broken hero, the dark hero. So like there's some like basic story arc types. And no matter what you look at, whether it's Toy Story or it or the Dark Knight, they're following these identical things that have been told from time immemorial before recorded history. these stories were kind of passed down and told. That's why they stick with us. >> That's why you haven't seen a new story archetype. >> Like you don't see Hollywood come up with, "Oh, guess what we did." >> Uh, no. It's the same stuff because that's what resonates with our the lowest most powerful parts of our brain. So, and I I'll I'll take this back to court just really quick to show you. If I'm if I'm trying to persuade a jury and let's say I'm working and my client is suing a big company, the client that I'm working for, they're suing a a big company. I don't have to mention David and Goliath. I might just mention a few topics about it to put the archetype of of David and Goliath in your head. Mhm. >> And then I might mention a couple of times when you're waiting in line at the DMV for hours and hours and hours and every other little situation where there's a big company who doesn't give a [ __ ] about you and then I mention walking down the hill to fight a battle. I'll never say David and Goliath directly, but I'll put that story front and center in your mind. And if I can if I get you to see that this is David and Goliath, that has a beginning and an end. I'm not putting you at the end. I I never I never ever ever talk about how the story ends because your brain already knows. >> I'm talking about this is the moment that this occurs. So your brain when you go to deliberate in the jury room, you think that it's your decision, but all you're doing is completing the story archetype. So that's the natural resolution. So if you if you know the story archetype and I can I can change your view of a situation to see it as a certain archetype, I can I can make you do anything because it's the natural next step in the story. So what this means in conversation is I've got this friend who is bitching and complaining and all that kind of stuff. my initial response is going to be to kind of hey man it's not that bad or kind of maybe back away from them which is great like just spend less time with them and figure out a way to get them at their best. So that's what I always say to people with you got negative family members or something figure out a way to only be there when they're at their best. But you have to understand that this person is in an in a story arc and they're in a hero's journey of their own. But he might be or she is in this little victim story and then what they're doing to you by like pulling you down is pissing you off because it's pulling you out of your story arc. You want to be successful. You want to be confident. You want to be happy. And then you're trying to bring them up. Guess what you're doing? You're pulling them out of their story arc. >> So the first thing you need to do is understand that like they're in an arc type. So if somebody is in this like downtrodden beat down kind of mindset, they're in some kind of story. It might be a tragedy, but it might be a case of redemption, then maybe the next chapter for them is when they learn the magic lesson or something, but it's never going to be in the school hallway. It's not going to be over a a a brunch or something where they get a piece of information. It's going to be it has to be a transition because that's what the movies tell us. And you see all this [ __ ] with with Epste and everybody's upset with Epstein. Why? Because all of us are deeply internally craving a Steven Spielberg ending for this [ __ ] We think that we need this. We need that the story archetype to completely unfold. big evil monster and then big evil monsters friends and then what every movie we've ever seen in our entire life completes that story archetype with some big nasty thing happening to all of them and them all disappearing like the Terminators. Uh but what we don't realize is that those arc types are wired into our brain number one without language. It's just the story can be in your brain without any any words. the story is still there. And two, that governs how we all of our shoulds, like they should be punished, they should go to jail, this should happen. Our shoulds are typically governed by little story arcs uh that we don't realize are playing out in our own mind. So that's a lot of like what we're seeing now. We don't get the Spielberg ending. >> Mhm. And that's a hard right that's the difficult part is that lack of resolution and people can see how they want it to end and so the more they want it to end like that the less likely it's going to end like that right because we are creating this whole thing >> and so so the people listening now who are ready to like get the bad guys have them you know with their pound of flesh which clearly I think in our experience with people that are very highowered It's never going to end that way. They're either going to get, you know, fakey unalived and brought somewhere and other actors are going to be in. There's a lot of that going on right now, which I think is pretty new for people to understand. Certainly for me, like, oh [ __ ] like these people may not have died and they may be taken somewhere. >> Yeah. And so >> I hired a forensic uh facial expert uh to look at one of these things of Galain Maxwell. >> There was someone from Canada where somebody walked past her and said Galain and she turned. She was in Canada. She had a hat on like on the street in Quebec. >> I haven't seen that. I was talking about the lady that they brought up to be questioned. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. With the fat nose and different ears and everything. >> Yeah. And so so this woman was to we we did this whole interview for a YouTube video and it's so controversial I decided I'm not going to make a video about it. Um but I don't know I'm not I'm no expert. So I called this this this woman >> and she said the ears are just like fingerprints and you can't change your ears and you can't change your fingerprints. Um, and she said this is a different uh person and like I don't claim to be an expert on it, but that's that's terrifying and hilarious at the same time. It's just like the tragic comedy uh archetype. We think we're in the redemption thing where the bad guy goes to jail. We're in I think this is like the tragic comedy story. We're in the wrong We're thinking of the wrong uh story type. >> Are you familiar with the concept of Satan's Little Season? No. Okay. So, the idea is that we bas him here. He comes in with these just >> so the the idea is that we we had about 900 to a,000 years inserted into our timeline that the whole notion of the dark ages is complete fallacy and it was basically done to uh steal property um to uh uh create new power centers. Um so the the concept of sane's little season little season is that um Christ uh about 50 years um came back after his uh birth resurrection then ascension um and then ca crucifixion and then resurrection and ascension came back and then there was the what's called the millennial reign and the millennial reign was about a thousand years of peace and prosperity that's where we get tartarian buildings that's why all these capitals and that have this extraordinary architecture that just doesn't make any sense when you really look at it in terms of time, place, capacities, um, workforce, population sizes. Like none of our none of the major capitals throughout the United States and most of the world make any sense when you realize the means of the means of architecture, the comparative architecture styles with the main buildings versus the dwellings where most people live. >> Wow. >> Like it just doesn't make any sense. You can go to Chicago with a new set of eyes when we both spent a lot of time in Chicago. Like it's unbelievable. I mean the you know the the the museum of art museum of industry I mean this just doesn't make any sense given how far they had to go. So the idea is that Christ survived he had a millennial reign of a thousand years. This was Tartaria free energy and so forth and all these buildings and then right about 1776 >> this is in another dimension or are they saying this happened here? >> This happened here and then in 1776 the millennial reign ended and the little season began. And this is 250 years where Satan has the run of the land and the rule of the land and everything's inverted. So we live in an inverted world where you know corruption is rewarded. Um, and I there's a there's a YouTube guy, scholar, podcaster named Paul Hobbs, who he was actually on Alex Zack's podcast, really went into the whole little season. And gosh, does it make sense that they basically fake the dark ages in order to totally disorient us and >> yeah, >> humans. >> Yeah, humans fake the dark ages and that basically time has happened much faster. I mean, if you think about it in some ways, like could humans really have 950 years where we just don't evolve at all? Where we just stay completely the same? There's just no evolution in thought, technology, art, >> nothing happens. And so, we are now towards the end of the 250ear millennial reign, which is why all this evil is getting exposed and the inversion is becoming so apparent to us because Satan's little season is coming to a close. And this >> so this year would be the end >> pretty yeah pretty much like it's >> like literally yes it's 250 years since then and so there's some buffering and doesn't actually happen like at but but yeah in this >> this is >> I've never heard any of this. >> Oh it's it's really interesting. It's really, really rich. And when you combine it with some of these like modern architectural analysis that's going on, the possibility of a mud flood, how so many of these significant buildings, the basements are actually normal stories with windows that that were buried under a mud flood. Yeah. Like there's there's some real evidence that this [ __ ] was completely real. The changing of our calendar from a 13-month, 28 day, like our calendar makes no sense. like no embrace embra December 10 is the 12th month of the year except seven is the n you know the ninth month of the year that everything's been inverted oed you know October is should be nine it's the 10th you know it's like a should be eight and it's the 10th everything's been inverted and if you look at our calendar with the jumbling of 28 days 30 days, 31 days. There's it works out perfectly to 28 days that have been inserted into the calendar. So, we naturally should have had a 13month calendar. Every Monday starts the same, you know, uh uh holidays, worship, timing of crops and harvesting, seasons, everything was menration, everything was completely organized >> with 13 months >> of 28 days. Okay? So everything in this realm has been inverted that we're living in this inversion which if you think about like corruption gets rewarded it's inversion you know I just saw a new thing from Florida where Epstein seemed to be driving in a brand new convertible BMW somebody pulled up next to him and they're like what the [ __ ] which would make perfect sense because he was in Israel before and Israel's getting bombed now so now you know you know he would be in Florida >> head back to Tampa >> yeah he's headed back to back to Florida. >> What insights have you >> What is this calendar thing? Is it called the Is it a Gregorian? >> The Gregorian calendar, which is supposedly like in the year 1345, Pope Gregory basically needed to find a way to disorient the pagan organization of the world, insert the Roman Catholicism, which was basically just a mechanism so the ancient families of Rome could find a new way to lord and rule over the world. um you know which is goes back to the 13 ruling families and like the kind of deep deeper conspiracy which I don't think is any real area of your expertise. So we should kind of what what I kind of want to drive at is like like so you've done all this traditional brain work, all this traditional academic study, all this outside of academic channel study, all this business and life experience now coaching experience, and now you've added these deep deep psychedelic explorations where you're a leader in the field of kind of psychedelic research and personal experimentation. Like what the [ __ ] is going on? Like where the [ __ ] are we? what in reality in like what where like what have you even if it's just I know I don't know like >> what are some insights and revelations that you've kind of had as you've moved from traditional course of study into this now area of of psychedelic expertise every single thing that I've ever seen in quantum mechanics science uh every lesson I've ever learned on a journey and every lesson I've ever even heard about or or even that exists in research that people learn on on like these deep psychedelic experiences goes back to the the seven hermetic principles and every time there's a breakthrough. >> Can you can you just do them real quick for our audience? >> I don't I don't have them memorized. >> Just uh the first two are the most important though. Um the first one is all is mind. The universe is mental. >> And law number two is the law of correspondence. Uh this is as above so below. Mhm. Oh, yeah. >> So, here's my spiel. And I I'm not married to this idea, and I don't I don't subscribe to any one idea. I just think it's very interesting that if you're in a dream right now, um, and you're let's say you're dreaming that you're in this room, the distance from you to that fireplace is probably 17 feet, right? But what is the distance in you're and in the dream you're looking through your eyes but the eyes that you're seeing with in the dream do not exist. But why can't you make a decision to see out of your stomach in your dream? You force yourself to look out of your eyes. And also, as a fun fact, nobody dreams about cell phones. >> Nobody ever. >> What? Oh, yeah. Wait. >> So, >> that's a whole another uh theory. >> Let's put a pin in that one cuz I want to come back to that. >> Let's come back to that. All right. So, you're in the dream. The distance from you to this fireplace, 14 ft. But in the dream, this distance is made out of what? What is the material that makes up this distance between you and the fireplace? In real life, if you're looking in reality, there is no distance. Right? So, the fireplace is not real. But what about the the you that's looking at the fireplace in the dream? Also not real, right? >> But what is this fireplace made out of? If you're dreaming, it's made out of you. >> Everything is recursive back to some point of consciousness. Does this make sense so far? >> Yeah. >> So, there is no such thing as distance in a dream because everything that I'm looking at in the dream is made out of chase. Mhm. >> This is all me. So the all is mind in the dream. Does this make sense so far? >> And if anyone's ever into lucid dreaming or trying to get into lucid dreaming, that's like you can explore consciousness that way big time. Uh and there's a there's a supplement called galantamine, which is al also a prescription Alzheimer's drug, which is like 100% guaranteed lucid dreaming. The one piece of advice I would give people if you're trying to go into lucid dreaming is do not use the toilets. They don't work because you'll piss the bed. >> Oh, that's interesting. >> Don't use the toilets in a lucid dream. Um, okay. So, let's say we're in that dream space. The the separation is an illusion in the dream. So the separation between me and this microphone is just something that's fabricated through consciousness because that's me. If I'm dreaming right now, this is me. You're me. You're me. The separation is an illusion. So when we say as above so below, what if we took that dream world an individual uh dreaming and then took it up to a collective dream? So what if that's just a a layer below and this is just the next layer of it. So like just the thought that there are doors here and tables and carpet and all this stuff might just be consciousness. And that is like the most modern discoveries in quantum mechanics and quantum quantum neurosychology are starting to prove that our brains are quantum. like onethird of the atoms or particles inside of our brain are gone at any given time. Like 24 hours a day, onethird of them are existing in some other place. And then what about the material realm? Because you have hands in your dream, but the hand doesn't exist. But in the dream, you can touch it, you can squeeze it, you can test it, you can taste it, you can smell it. >> Everything is provably real inside of a dream. So, what if this is just level? We're on the second floor. >> So, it's just a dream within a dream. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I don't 100% subscribe to that there. I just think it's just mindblowing all by itself, >> right? >> It's a harder one to get to. By the way, I do have the other hermetic principles which I I do love as well. >> I think the three is polarity, right? or um >> in no particular order but yeah polarity opposites are two ends of the same spectrum hot cold lovehate vibration everything is in motion and constantly constantly vibrating the one that I think really helps me is a law of rhythm which everything moves in cycles and flows and so when things are going great like just not subscribing too much to how great things are because they need to come back down to the the eb. >> Yeah. >> You know, and when and conversely, when things are feeling really shitty, it's like this two shall pass. And just like knowing that this kind of um orientation needs to complete its cycle, much like >> the hero's journey and just like trusting, staying in it for me has been super helpful. And then cause and effect. Nothing happens by chance. Every action creates a result. And then gender uh masculine and feminine principles exist in all things and drive creation. But yeah, everything >> which when you think about that in terms of the inversion and how hard they work to confuse that hermetic principle. >> Yeah. >> That's Satan's little season right there to invert and confuse everything. Well, the beginning lie that you have to sell to everyone to really sigh up the entire world, uh, it has to start with separation. It that has to be step one. Like, if you're doing something evil, separation has to be step one. If I want you to hate you, I have to convince you that that's not you, right? Because if I view every everything as one, like if we are all not connected, but if we're all one, >> I don't need morality anymore. I don't I don't have morals. I'm just protecting me, >> right? >> I'm doing good for other people because that's me. There's no morality there. But here's the here's the biggest one. If we can go on a little deep end tangent, >> please >> a little deeper than before. Uh this is another one from Alan Watts. But he said, if you're suppose you're God and you can dream, you can experiment and do all these experiments. You're going to have trillions and trillions of years worth of dreams and eventually you're going to be like, "Yeah, this sucks. I need to add some dragons or some cliffs and like somebody trying to stab me and stuff like that. It's it doesn't mean anything unless there's some stakes. So then you do that for another trillion years, but you you still know that you're God and you still was like, "Oh yeah, [ __ ] you, dragon." Like he cut his head off or whatever. He said it just going along with this thought experiment. No matter what eventually you will reach a point where the only way to enjoy anything is to forget that you are God. And you have to forget. It's the only way to make anything meaningful. And man, that hit me in the chest when I heard it for the first time. you're going to I mean no matter what you'll reach a point where you don't want to know that because everything's meaningless. Uh and it's hard to have any stakes. You can't have stakes if you're God. Yeah, I know that one the exact one you're talking about. I think a buddy of mine, Beretta, did a u musical accompaniment to that one, which I'll I'll see if I can find it and have Lindsay post it in the >> in the show notes. But it is like I remember when I heard it, I was like, "What the fuck?" It's like to convince you that you aren't God. And it's like, "Holy shit." Because you would end up in this particular dream out of all the dreams and it's like, "Holy shit." >> Yeah. >> What a cool dream. Mhm. >> Yeah. So, I mean, and all the all the research that they're doing, uh, they're finding this too much of the research right now is just materialist reductionism. Like, if if we have an orchestra, I will never begin to understand music by dissecting a cello. >> I could spend 5,000 years dissecting sheet music and cello and put it under a microscope. It doesn't do anything. It doesn't help me understand music at all. And that's what science does. Let's reduce it down to every single material element, strip it into a million pieces, and stick each one under a microscope and study it. Uh, but I think there's something that's immaterial uh that we just don't understand yet. We're we're a baby species. We haven't been here very long. Have you heard the theory that we're not from Earth? Have you heard this? >> Um, yes. in multiple different forms. So >> like Anunnaki >> Yeah. >> impregnated uh our ancestors or something. >> Yeah. So the Anunnaki are the fallen angels and 200 of them were cast out of heaven and uh well first they were put here as the watchers to protect God's sacred realm and then they saw like oh there's some pretty good-looking women here and you know so I want to so they started having sex with the humans of God's creation and then created the Nephilim which were halfhuman um half uh fallen angels and that's where these like families that supposedly rule the world. They're still the direct Nephilim. So, there's a really good there's a really uh podcast I like that I've been on called Nephilim Death Squad where they go into all this [ __ ] all the time and they're always like, "Yeah, it's just Nephilim shit." Like, all the stuff that we're dealing with is just these [ __ ] egoic fallen angels who separated themselves from God and impregnated human women, created this kind of subspecies. It's all just this elitist subspecies group having these battles for supremacy where sometimes they work together and sometimes they're fighting against each other. It's all very fatiguing at this point. Like I would like to have a timeout. I'm really just, you know, I have children and I have like mundane things I'd like to see for them. Like my both my kids are very good athletes, you know, like they love their sport. I love watching their sport. Like the thing >> I can imagine you sitting there at like a a football game or soccer game, your kids playing, all the parents are watching their kids and inside your brain you're going like what if there were ancient reptiles and they mated with humans in the DNA and like you're going through all this [ __ ] in your head. >> So dude, you have no idea. It affects me so much. First off, like I'm a great parent in terms of like love, attentiveness, you know, food. Um my wife and I do an incredible job. I am so bad with like discipline and work ethic because I'm like, "Oh, [ __ ] Go fine. I'll do the dishes. Go hang out with your friends." You know, okay, don't do the chore. I'll do it. Because I'm like, you know, it's like poof, it's all going to be gone, you know, in a second. So, like it really this this level of nihilism that's infected our world really affects my parenting in terms of like discipline and I'm raising kids that like they have really good like sport work ethics. But like if I ask them to do I have this thing called the 3:1 ratio. Like if I ask my kids to do something, there is a 3x complaining to the onex of the task. So I have 90 seconds of fighting for 30 seconds of putting dishes away. So it's >> you're describing my life, too. >> Yes. So, but basically, I'm so concerned that this is this illusion which has brought me like a lot of joy and children and I got to get 19 tackles against Ohio State in one moment of my life. You know, it's like I want my kids to have those tastes. though I don't I'm terrible with the discipline. It totally influences like our home like go sure spend okay it's fine go do it it's all right >> I'm the same way are you that way too >> yeah I I've shifted a little bit because it's been I think required um but but I had a similar kind of orientation like they'll figure it out when they need to. I mean they they are brought up in a completely different world and a completely different level of prosperity than than I grew up in and that really served me like it it did each of us here and they don't have the same uh yeah the same suite of options available to them. They're much different. Some would argue much better. I don't know. They didn't choose that. Well, maybe they did choose. I mean, we could argue about that if they chose to come in as our kids, but you know, I have a lot of empathy for them because growing up with with more resources doesn't make your life better. And and they've expressed that to me recently like uh people just not understanding, thinking that they grew up in this really nice house and and the like that it doesn't mean that their life is easier. in some ways is more challenging because they don't have the natural obstacles that we had and their path ahead of them is is much more obscured particularly now with >> it's got to be more >> AI and yeah >> and it's got to be more self-defined for the kids like for us it was easier in a way like you know >> do you want do you want to live in the same level of struggle that your parents did and or do you want to get out of this small town in Maine like it was a lot more like oh I want to get out of the small town of Maine. So, I'm going to do well in school. I'm going to kick ass in hockey. I'm going to get into this school and then I get this opportunity, you know, with commodity trading and I'm going to completely go for it because I don't want to live in this tiny little [ __ ] town. But all of a sudden, you're living in Austin and you're like, it's a great house and a great home and a great mom and a great dad and you're like, oh [ __ ] Like, you know, how you define ambition? You know, >> I talk to my kids directly about that. I'm like, you know, like you a young person, you have to have some level of healthy ambition to propel your life forward. >> Yeah. >> Um >> and and I think like the one thing I really really hammered down to my kids, like you can have shitty grades every once in a while. You could do all that kind of stuff. I don't care that much. It's just like just look around at everybody. the more connected somebody is online, the more you have loneliness, anxiety, depression, >> crazy amounts of stuff. Like that living in a big city like this almost guarantees loneliness and depression. >> Uh and it's like if you just look at the people who are happier, who live longer, have less heart disease, less fill in the blank less. They're socially connected. They know who their neighbors are. They they talk to people in three dimensions a lot more. you know, I mean, they I don't remember the town, but that and they were still smoked cigarettes and stuff every day. It's not like they were like vegans and had this crazy weird diet or anything. It's just that they were connected to nature because we are nature. We are we're not like I need to go outside and spend time in nature. It's like that's me out there. >> And like the further you get you get into these cities, >> it's like a little factory for apathy and depression and anxiety and all that stuff, loneliness. Mhm. >> Rampant loneliness. >> Yeah. And then the more resources you have, the less you're seeking out your neighbors for support so that you're all pitching in together. It's like, oh, I'm self-reliant. And then that just becomes more isolating. I know that for me personally this idea of being self-reliant which was amazing for me as you were saying like coming up you know in win and yeah like knowing that I needed to rely on myself >> as I became much older and I still had such a an identification with that >> it was just creating more distance with me and my wife >> because I wasn't seeking out her support because I really felt like I needed to do it on my own And that was just, you know, as I've let go of that and and reached out to her and tried to find ways for us to connect in that way, we're more of a partnership now. >> That is beautiful. And I'm glad this goes back to just everything that we've been talking about is it's the archetype. You get you start using like I need a big house. I need to go to the country club. I need to go to all these things. you're fulfilling an archetype and that's all you're really doing and and you're just kind of trying to do a Spielberg story and we're not really creating like what are the things that get I I can get real value from. And I made a YouTube video like a year ago um called Earth is a video game. I think that's the name of it. But I basically I made a tutorial and a a review of of this planet as if it were a video game. And uh just kind of like here are the things you need to do to win. Like if you want to figure out like how to win at life, look at the regrets of dying people. There is no better teacher than than looking at the regrets of people that are dying. I wish I'd have spent more time with family. I wish I'd have paid more attention to my friends. I wish I'd have checked in with people more often. I wish I read more books. I wish I It's never about anything else than like the real [ __ ] that that really fulfills us. >> And it's very simple. There's not some secret method to happiness. Just look at the regrets of dying people and you will see the code to life. >> I don't know whether I spoke to you about I think I might have mentioned this last time. I don't know. We're like an old married couple now. We get together, we talk about the same [ __ ] So, um I have this theory that mushrooms work on the vertical axis. So it's the it's the the earth's kind of geomorphic sublime divine energy compressed into this fungus. You ingest the fungus and then it opens you up to the divine and it works from the divine through you to the earth. The earth through you to the divine and it's opening up that corridor. So basically on this earth plane you can live healthier, happier, uh a more productive, enjoyable, meaningful life and that the other psychedelics um DMT and so forth work on a horizontal plane >> and it's a little more precarious when you're in the horizontal plane because other [ __ ] from dimensions and timelines can kind of jump in. um having done a wealth of both, what do you think of that theory and have you had any experiences um that kind of validate or invalidate? >> I was uh the 41st person in the world to do introvenous DMT for 5 hours. >> Five hours. >> Just for our audience to know >> that was you were about to do it when we sat here last. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And so I I would love to have you share about that experience. >> Just for for reference, most DM other DMT they can be a long time in the dimensions you go into, but they're really just about 20 minutes a DMT experience. >> Yeah. I think that average is eight. >> Eight. Okay. So you went in for 5 hours. >> Yeah. >> What could go wrong? >> So I mean just for the record, I went in for neuroplasticity. >> Yeah. Uh, I got the results of a brain scan and and like 38% of my brain is not even working. Um, to the point where I shouldn't really be able to function very well and I and I'm fine. I'm better than I've been in my better than I was in my 20s now. M >> and I I wanted the neurogenesis which means like when when you're on a psychedelic uh neurogenesis means that your brain is getting this boost of a chemical called BDNF brain derived neutrophic factor and the BDNF helps new little babies neurons get made which are like 99% of them 95% of them are in the hippocampus area that we know of uh only. Um, and it also enables this other thing called LTP, long-term potentiation, which means that your neurons can uh get a divorce when they need to, which is long-term depentiation, and they can get married to ones that they need to. So like if you have a damaged area of your brain here, this uh uh what's called it's a neuroplasticity, but there's a subtype of neuroplasticity called synaptic plasticity where the synapses can get a divorce and then like hey these guys used to talk to each other. We're going to wrap around this damaged area and we're going to we're going to form a new network around damage. Uh so I was really trying to do that. But the journey itself, oh my god, 5 hours um of just being ripped out of this entire reality. It's kind of like you get a like you're pulled outside of the Truman Show and like you can see all of this and it and it's you it's a more real than reality is it's a thousand times more real than this than this ever can or could hope to be. And it kind of ruins you in a little bit in a good way. where when you come back, you know, like this looks like a cartoon oil painting when you come back from uh something on DMT. >> Do you recall like any specifics like nuggets, moments you kind of share? >> Yeah, so the the first when it it was introvenous, so I had I had it in my arm. I was laying down. These people held the space so beautifully well and they had a beautiful space for it. And that first moment um cuz when you do DMT everyone goes to this place called the waiting room um which you're familiar with probably. >> I've heard of it actually. This the one of probably the only real psychedelic I haven't done. I've done 5meo but never DMT. >> Okay. It's heavy. I mean the way that uh Kevin described he was the guy who who facilitated our experience. He described DMT that I've ever heard in my life. He just said DMT is big. It's big in a way that you cannot fathom, describe, comprehend, imagine, or even come close to understanding how big DMT is. And that is just the perfect word for me. And but the first thing I that happened right when I was in there, I buzzed right past the waiting room because the machine is an anesthesiology machine. So, it's basically like a big there's a giant fat syringe full of DMT and there's a machine that pumps it at a certain uh like milliliters per minute rate and like if you want to go up, you want like you want to launch, they could just turn the dial and it pump pump. It'll do a little boost and you're you're launched out. So, I >> obviously did that, right? >> Yeah. I spent like three milliseconds in the waiting room and I was up there in instantly and these beings and for 4,500 years we've all seen the same exact same beings up there. Every human without any exception sees the exact same entities on on DMT for 4,500 years, which is bizarre. Uh, but these things shoved me down onto this like stainless steel kind of medical table and from pelvis all the way up to my neck. Uh, like cut my body open with these massive shears. And it didn't hurt. Like there was no pain and I I wasn't scared at all. Like if it happened in this life Yeah. Uh it would be terrifying. But on the DMT space, everything's okay. Like it's full of love and non-judgment and all that stuff. Uh, and they're weird looking light beings that kind of look like they're aliens. Um, but I could hear them every single sound. I could hear my organs kind of sloshing as they pushed their hands. I could feel every single thing that they were doing to me. And it was it just imagine it's 10,000 more times more real than this. And and I was going through this and then this other >> Can I ask you a question? So are you are you here looking at them or are you also here looking at them and then also completely objectified where you're looking at it >> now I was in my head. >> Okay. So you're in the subjective. >> Yes. >> Okay. You're looking at this as we see things. Yes. Okay. Uh, so I'm kind of laid down on this table looking up and then this one holds my forehead down and sticks a like a drill bit like this long into my nose. It was freezing cold and it goes up into my nose and I could feel it going further and further and further all the way until it bumps the back of my skull and the drill bit is it doesn't go through my skull but it's pushing my head down onto the table where I can't pick my head up and it is ice cold and there's no pain. Uh but then I could feel like stuff moving inside of my head like something come come out of this drill bit. I don't know, stuff was going on and then all kinds of other [ __ ] happened for 5 hours that never stopped. Well, I took a pee break. So dur during the experience, like if you need a pee or something or if you want to come down a little bit, they can kind of just adjust your altitude right there on that little machine, which is unbelievable. But then I I'm done with the whole experience. I go back to the hotel and then I find out the night before we were at their house just to kind of I'm going to look at the space. I'm we're going to talk to them. They're the nicest people. They do this at their home in uh in Denver. And I didn't know this, but this guy, he's a genetic scientist. He's a genetic science research expert who makes the the medicine. But he took Michelle, my wife, into the kitchen and into the freezer and showed her this little Pelican box of vials so she could select the vials that I would use the next day. And they prayed over these vials. And right after I told her everything, she said, "The only prayer that I said was for them to immediately fix your heart and then your head." Because I have a I have a heart thing going on as well. and I have a brain disease. And she told the DMT to do that the night before. >> Wow. That was a question I was gonna ask. >> Wow. And >> then that was the first order of business that they that they had. >> They just went straight to it. >> Yeah. >> And >> and I didn't know. I never knew that she even went in the kitchen. Like I just thought they were out bullshitting somewhere in the house. >> Wow. And um how have you been since? Yeah. What was it like? because because I know we were in touch right after that and it was like kind of putting the pieces back together was was kind of first order of business. >> Yeah. And it it started off with a depression. And I remember I'm laying there on this thing in this experience. They're like, "All right, Chase, we're going to we're going to go ahead and bring you start bringing you down." And the unwillingness that I had to come back here was monumental. Like I I would just please kill me. Like I didn't say that, but I did say out I have a tape of the entire thing. I videoed it coming down. I did ask 39 times throughout that whole experience if I was dead. Like out loud, I'm like, "Am I dead?" 39 times. That's how deep it was. Like I didn't know if I still had a body or if I was dead. I had no clue. It was really deep. and coming down. It felt like there was absolutely zero way for me to return back to this life without developing some narcissism. >> Mhm. >> And that's that what that's what was really depressing to me that I had that I had to go back and like >> develop a little just to survive just to live on this planet. uh you had to have some narcissism and it was I was crying so [ __ ] hard, man. And these God bless these people wiping my tears and snot coming out of my nose. Um but it was like I did not really want to come back. Um it it's kind of like if if randomly someone uh like you feel a weird thing on your head, you don't know what it is. There's nobody in the house. You feel this thing moving on your head and all of a sudden you're in another reality and someone just took off a VR helmet and this is where you've been the whole time just inside of a little VR game. >> And then like you go to like actual reality where there's just unlimited love and peace and abundance and they're like, "Okay, we got to put the helmet back on. You've got to go back inside the the video game." >> [ __ ] >> That's what it felt like, man. and just kind of integrating after five hours of that was really really tough for probably a couple weeks. >> How uh two questions um five hours of our earth plane linear time was about how long in the DMT world if you have any sense of that. >> Yeah, it was six months. Five or six months is what it felt like. Did you have like a you had a whole life and little world happening up there? >> Yeah, but it wasn't like um it wasn't me. >> Yeah. >> per se. It was just kind of I was with other things happening and I could kind of observe things happening and uh talk to these creatures and stuff and these these entities. But it's like like we're we're these little infantile hairless monkeys. Like our our little species is so funny. And then we're like, "You know what? You know what I want to learn today? I'm going to learn the secrets of the universe." And and then you do DMT and they're like, "All right, motherfucker." And they show it all to you and you can't comprehend it. You can't understand it. You'll never be able to piece any of it together and try explaining one billionth of 1% of it to another human being. Good luck. But they still show it to you. >> It's like you're not bringing it back. You're not going to carry it with you back when you come back here. We are doing some experimentation with mixing high doses of Alzheimer's drugs with the DMT >> so that we can bring back much bigger chunks of data and and and information there. and doc there's a guy named Andrew >> Gallamore >> uh and he's doing a whole lot of research with this be beautiful brain that this guy has >> um trying to map out not a physical map but trying to understand and like develop a knowledge of this hyperspace whatever the place is that we go uh on the DMT >> how about the um how about the biological and neurological surgery that they did or work on you um how's how's your heart and your brain brain been since had the procedures done? >> Zero problems with anything. >> Wow. >> Uh since then. >> Wow. >> And I haven't got a brain scan because the scan that I have to get is called a PET. So PET stands for posetron emission tomography. But it's it's nuclear. So the scan is so bad that I can't hug my wife or sleep in the same bed as them for 48 hours because there's so much nuclear radiation coming out of my body. So, I just I I'll I'll treat it as if like I know I have a brain problem when I have symptoms. >> I don't need a machine. >> Yeah. >> Like I have these friends that wear these like 15 aura rings and sleep monitors and all this kind of [ __ ] Like, dude, you have eight sensors in this thing and you have 9 million in your body. Like, your body is way more advanced than your Apple Watch. It knows exactly whether or not you wake up in the morning, you feel like [ __ ] you didn't sleep well, >> right? >> Like I don't need an Apple Watch. Like your body has billions and billions of sensors and and data collection mechanisms uh to tell you when things are off and its natural response is to heal itself. So you're just the only thing that your body needs is material like raw materials. It just needs that stuff. And there's so many times people go to a psychologist for or or people go to a psychologist and then 15 years later discover this whole time they've had a vitamin B12 deficiency >> or they have some physiological problem that's causing psychological issues. >> Yeah. A lot of research on that. Minerals, it's almost like a 100% correlation between depression and mineral deficiency, imbalances in the brain and so forth. >> Yeah. So h how about like your aura, your energy, your frequency, your vibration? Are you finding um like synergies, kismmits, serendipities, coincidences now more? Are you without being like narcissistic about it like are you a more like positive and ultimately like uplifting energy and presence and for you, your family, your colleagues, your students and so forth? I've gotten a lot better as a human being. >> Uh because I think with every not micro dose, but every I mean I'm on a micro dose right now, but I mean like every journey that I've ever done has helped me to understand with each thing I'm less special than I thought I was. I'm less special than I thought I was. I'm in a beautiful amazing way, not some self-demeaning way. uh in a freeing way and it's just less and less special. And starting out, I thought I was really special, >> big time. >> Uh and then the the mushrooms have a way of exactly what we talked about earlier, shifting that perspective so much and zooming you out to show you how small you are. Uh how small and important you are, special versus important, you know, like I think they're different things. And I think the the more that I can be shown how not special I am, the better my life gets. >> And along the lines of, you know, adding the the Alzheimer's drug as a, you know, to go along with the the DMT. Are there other areas that you're looking to explore? Would you go back into that 5h hour experience? Where do you kind of sit with that as your kind of next frontier? I'm definitely going back. Um, y'all should come and I'll I'll if if either of you guys want to do it, I'll sit with you the whole time and I'll sit there and hold your hand the whole time. It's an amazing I mean that it it will permanently change you in in that when you come back here for the rest of your life, no matter what, no matter how seductive the world is, for the rest of your life, you're going to know that it's fake. >> Yeah, I'm super curious. I know you're hard no. I'm sure I know you. >> No, I'm No, I'm not. I'm >> Well, you're terrified of doing the big journeys and stuff, so I'm curious. is the biggest of jerks, but it's definitely it's not it's not it's um um >> I'm not a judgment either. >> No, but there's um there's a really nice um Oh, hold on. Um Kyle Kingsbury Godsbury um um I forgot Godzy's first name. >> Eric Godsy. >> Eric Godsy. So um Eric Godsy has this expression called the death cookie. So like whenever you're shown something that you really don't want to do, you got to eat it. You got to eat that death cookie. So I'm so aware of like the death cookies, I'm like, "Oh no, I I should do it. I want to do it. Yeah. But I'm I'm terrified of it, I think, in a good and kind of, you know, a respectful way. >> Well, there's there's there's a balance of terrified. It sometimes terrified could be that's a signal like not yet. I think having a healthy like fear is the right word, but like okay, this is a big experience whether it's >> it's a death in a way. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. But I'm also like very curious and and >> would love to >> and Terrence McKenna had the best phrase for it I've ever heard in my life >> and he called it death by astonishment. >> Mhm. >> Which just perfectly encapsulates that entire experience. It's like it's so astonishing in a way that you will never ever be able to describe this to another person. And it that's gonna piss you off. Like it pisses me off that I can't like I can't convey what happens on DMT to another person >> and it's it's a chemical that we make in our own body >> and it's a felony in almost the entire country. We make it in our body and it's a felony. >> Yeah. Well, talk about the clown world inversion that we live in, you know, Satan's little season. Let's invert everything, you know. I mean >> Oh, yeah. My wife and I have to drive past uh three vape stores and two liquor stores to go pick up our illegal raw milk. Right. Right. Which has to be also labeled not for human consumption. >> Right. Right. Um, no. That's um as a big raw milk person, I uh it's crazy. Here in uh Texas, they changed the law and um they like they can't sell it anymore, but you have to buy it as like a gift card. It's like a whole weird thing. So, you can't you can't just go to the market and buy it. Um some farmers kind of just don't pay any attention to it because the enforcement is slack, but technically like you have to order in advance as like a gift card. It's like a weird kind of loophole. >> Wow. In Virginia, you have to own a piece of the cow. So like several families will own it a part of a cow or a part ownership in a cow. And if because the Virginia law is if you own the cow, you can no one can tell you that you can't drink milk out of your own cow. So >> So tip technically when I go to pick up raw milk, it's from my cow that I own. Uh and that's what I'm taking home. That's a great workaround right there. >> Yeah. >> What about you, Chef? Like what have you been working on? I know obviously the max deck came out at the kind of the end of the year. >> Can we talk about this max deck? >> I'd love to. >> I take this every day now. >> You do? >> So you sent me a freebie >> Yeah. >> bag and it took me like a month to get to it and I because you texted me every week. Did you try the max stack? Yeah. >> But now I do it every day. Um so this is like I have a little lineup. I have a rolling like cart >> pharmacopia. >> Yeah, that's has my daily stuff on it so I can kind of bring it if I need to pull it in my office or whatever. Uh, and max stack is like the far left and I go from left to right on this card every day. Says max stack, creatine, and then other stuff, iodine. >> But this max stack, can you te talk about what's in it? Because just looking at the ingredients list is overwhelming to me. So what what we wanted to do with the maxac max does not have our secret ingredient in it. So it's non it's non-csychoactive has no psilocybin uh which we call for obvious purposes the brain supreme mushroom blend or active ingredient. So what we wanted to do with max stack is we spent years researching like almost I mean with mushrooms there's so many things that complement mushrooms at the psychedelic level. You know it's like basically just love and thinking good thoughts complement you know your mushroom dose. There are certain ingredients that definitely can complement and boost a micro and a macro dose. So we wanted to create a product that basically we threw the kitchen sink at from a a therapeutic and and ritual standpoint also like an everyday usage. So we basically wanted to add every known ingredient in the world that benefits a micro and a macro dose. >> So uh mushrooms, adaptogens, aminos and cacao. So we created a base of ceremonial cacao and son cinnamon. And then we have um 22 other ingredients, chaga, rayi, cortiseps, lion's mane. And then we've got about 10 different minerals and adaptogens. And then 10 different amino acids and creatine um in this base of very high-grade ceremonial cacao and colon cinnamon. Now it has to be cinnamon because at high doses, regular cinnamon is is delletterious for the kidney. It's not so good. Cellon cinnamon, the true cinnamon, you can take that 5 g, 10 grams at a time. But other cinnamons you don't want to you don't want to do that with. Um it's a different type of bark for a different type of cinnamon tree. Only the son cinnamon is is healthy at high doses. So um it's a little bitter. I tell everybody that because we wanted to leave it unsweetened. I do it in my So I do like for me the new founders thing is the which is what you did this morning is the max stack with a black stack. So it's a 300 milligram micro dose um with the max stack and like energy focus. So, I make a max stack latte. I actually just throw everything in the blender and then I just pour it through a strainer. So, I do I do some coffee, which now I do less coffee and I do a half calf, half decaf, and then I throw in the max stack. I'll actually add a little more cinnamon, a little creatine, local raw honey. Um, pour the hot water, blend that up for like 45 seconds. Then I pour in like some raw milk or some uh organic heavy cream and then just pour that through a strainer. >> So, after about 3 hours, you you're ready to go. It takes about 3 hours to make that drink. >> Jesus. >> No, honestly, it's in the blender. It's fast because if you did in a French press separately and made the French press, it's if you just go in the blender with your ground coffee and then pour it through a strainer, >> it's 45 seconds. You know, you can let it sit there, pour it through, and then and then you're set. But in terms of like if you thought if you compared that with opening up let's say you took onethird of the supplements that are in max stack like even from a time standpoint I think the making of the max stack is still faster than if you opened up seven different supplement jars. So probably saving you time. >> Yeah. And traditionally people would like make their coffee and then add this. >> Yeah. just or just make your coffee and just stir the Mac stack in. And then with all the with all the amino acids and minerals, there's a little bitterness there. It's kind of like a coffee-like bitterness. Some people really like that. I add a little bit of of local raw honey or some maple crystals or some kind of hippie sugar in some way. >> Um, but yeah, that was our idea that we wanted and I've used it ceremonial now, too, which is really great. >> Like I've I've put four grams in it, blended it up because we wanted to test it that way. >> Wow. >> And it was it was deep. Yeah. And it's also it was it was interesting because the journey um like it was it was the the um the ascent is a little faster. The journey's great and the descent is a little faster. So you're in and you're out a little quicker and the journey is interesting there because there's like a nutritional sustenance in the journey. So like hunger pangs or other things that can kind of sometimes mess with you. We're just totally satiated. So it's like a really wonderful 4hour >> dude >> ride. That's awesome. Yeah. >> You know what I wound up doing? I The creatine that I take every day is like Walgreens brand. >> No. No. You got to get the stuff with the German approval. The creatine monohydrate. >> It is creatine monohydrate. >> Yeah. But there's like honestly I've asked a couple people about that. I'm not sure. Something about there's a German patent on creatine that it's like a little Sean Wells would be the one to answer, but I I get a brand called Momentous. Clean creatine. But what I wound up doing is I take that little tub of creatine and I would dump it in this bag and mix it up. Yeah. >> So that every day I'm not having to do two different things. I try to like minimize this >> this thing I do in the morning. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Cuz we're we're at one gram or depends if you do one scoop or two scoops. We're at 500 or or one gram of creatine. And probably you want to be around five to maybe 10 grams of creatine. So you can certainly add more creatine. >> Yeah. I dumped it in there and it I don't keep it in this bag. Like the bag is beautiful though. I have a like a glass cylinder thing that I take it out of and every day I'll kind of roll it on its side and then give it a couple of back and forths and then scoop out of it. >> Yeah. You get your technique down. I have a lot of athletes who are doing the max. So, particularly for like morning athletics where you don't want to eat. So, let's say like you got a pickle ball or you got your workout and you don't want to necessarily eat um before your workout. I have some professional athletes and amateur athletes. They'll do the max stack with their micro dose. If you can time it out like 60 to 75 minutes before like kickoff or main game time, you're going to hit flow state. To combine a micro dose with a with a max stack before your morning workout, like an hour or so, it's flow state workouts. >> Wow. >> I get a lot of feedback from athletes and and just gym guys and everything. They take I just saw a guy yesterday who's a you know 55y old dude now was a bodybuilder still likes to train hard. He's like dude they got to pull me out of the gym on athlete. I time it out like an hour before and the workouts are just great. >> You actually gave these to me. So could you give me a like walk me through what each one of these are? >> Okay so black stacks are extra strength. So we take a 300 mgram micro dose and we blend it with um nano curcumin ginger and vitamin C. So, it's our it's our extra strength, triple strength. 300 milligrams can be a lot for some people with a micro dose. For me, it's kind of a sweet spot. Um, and so that that's our extra strength formula. You know, you can we don't nec we really created Brain Supreme as a micro doing supplement, but you can tune up and take a couple black stacks and hit a little cruising altitude. If you're going to do anything more than that, I think you should work with just straight mushrooms and so forth. Yeah. Um, but you know, if you got an off day on a weekend and it's in a responsible setting, you can take three or four and you know, just kind of go for a little bit of a marvel at the uh central Texas clouds for a couple hours. But that's our extra strength formula. So, um, and that actually uh, in terms of cost per most expensive ingredient, that has 9 g total active ingredient because it's 30 capsules at 300 milligrams, which is 9 g. Every other product is 6 g. Every other product has more complimentary ingredients, but the the cost by most expensive ingredients. So, Black Stack, if you can handle 300 milligram micro dose, it's kind of the most uh cost-effective um product as well. Um and then our flagship formula is genius. That's our most neutropic formula. So, it's um kind of classic neutropics, elthenine, elyroine, alphagpc, um green tea extract, guana blended with 100 milligrams of our active ingredient. And then feel good is our kind of heart oriented formula, heart emotions, libido. We have some nano curcumin in there. Sorry. We have um some nanotized um CBD in there. Um and um uh Damian, another kind of heart, emotion, mood. I like actually um I take feelood the least from a micro doing standpoint, but feel good's really kind of five or six capsules on a weekend. It really is a groovy great feeling. It's really fun for a little cruising altitude. You do feel loving and just mellow. >> Um it's great for love making. It's good for sex. It's It's like 10% better. It's like more meaningful and just like, you know, touch and and sensations and so forth. It's good. And then athlete is our workout formula. Um so we blend that with um it's 100 milligrams of the proprietary mushroom that we blend with um then uh different elements for recovery and heart rate and cardiovascular support and so forth. Um stacking athlete and genius is a really good formula as well too. If you're like a if you're a workout person, um what we call our performance protocol, which is um an an every other day or one day on, two day off, slightly higher micro dose. You can stack athlete and genius about an hour or 75 minutes before your game or workout. My professional athletes will do practice day and game day because you want to keep it in your system. You never want to be disregulated for when you want to peak for game day. So you do a practice day with a performance dose and you save it for game day. So that's a a really effective formula for that. Um and then just kind of mixing it up. The standard protocol is what we call supplement dosing. Five days on, two days off, best in the morning, best on an empty stomach, best with a glass of lemon water or with max stack. And then once you figure out like where your sweet spot is, perceptible, non- intoxicating, not hallucinatory, then you can start to then you can start to adjust, you know. So start with one capsule, scale up, find your area where you're like, "Oh, I'm most tuned on. I'm I'm I'm most productive." And then that's your sweet spot. Then you can play around like start with the supplement protocol, really understand these products. Some people like one in the morning and then they like one at 1 pm. Some people if they take it in the afternoon, it's a little sleep disruptive because your brain is still active. Some people are like, you know, I want to feel it more. Like I appreciate a micro dose, but I'm going to go to performance dosing because I really want to get tuned up twice a week. Yeah. And then, >> you know, you can you burn off the more noticeable demonstrative sensation in the gym. and then the benefits of the micro dose linger throughout the day and the rest of the day and and so forth. But yeah, so that's what we're doing. But I mean the for us the proof's in the pudding. Um because we grow by, you know, we grew by 200% from year 1 to year two and we grew by another 120% from year two to year three. And we have the highest conversion rate, I believe, of any supplement on all of Shopify's website. So, we have a 66% conversion rate from one-time buyer to subscriber, which in the supplement space is kind of unheard of. >> Yeah. >> So, that means that we're we're doing something that's that's working. >> You are. >> Yeah. But your students have been amazing. You know, they've really they use it as part of the NCI protocol and so forth. >> Yeah. And nothing I make them do, but Yeah. >> I know a lot of them uh a lot of them love your stuff. you've come in as a guest speaker to our our elite kind of the VIP inner circle of mine. >> Yeah, it's always fun >> and uh we're amazing people and I know they were all very appreciative of the education because it's it's one thing to be able to just like oh somebody says oh I can find I didn't know I could order this. I didn't know like it it could get mailed to my house. It's not labeled in a way that uh somebody might get in trouble or anything. And the second part is like, okay, I now I can order it, but I need an education. >> I need a I need a course. I need something, which is why like I tell everybody, uh, even like the lady that was next to me on the plane on the way over here, I was telling her about this. I was like, not only can you buy it there, there's a course and Adam's got a course on brains.co. You can take this course. It's going to give you everything that you might need to know about doing micro doing in a healthy way and effective, a way that's actually going to help your life. >> Great. Well, thanks. I'm actually about to redo the re-shoot the whole course, too, because I finished the home studio. >> Oh, good. >> Yeah, the home. We got a little home media and podcasting thing going on now, too. So, about to redo the whole course as well. >> Love it. >> So, we'll do version two. >> Dude, you're the best, man. It's so great talking to you. And then uh like for Cal and I, it never gets old. We know that you're Cal and I are such good friends now. So, it's like when you text, I'm like, "Okay, let me tell Cal because we'd rather like share the love." Yeah, man. And I love just like this is I mean, aside from a microphone right here, it just feels like we're we're hanging out because well, I've known you guys for a year or two now and >> I've known you for a while now. >> Two. Yeah. Over two years. >> And uh >> Thank you, Darius. >> Yeah. It just feels like we're friends hanging out. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I love it too because you you texted us yesterday morning and I was in Las Vegas getting ready to come back uh yesterday and then I was supposed to leave this morning super early for Florida for golf and I was just like on the fence like should I change my flight? And then the text came through that you're in town for two days. Do you guys want a podcast Sunday? I'm like that probably makes the most sense. And then I waited five minutes. I'm like okay let's do this. And it worked out perfectly. Yeah. But before we wrap, I do want to hear um this next project you're you're doing. >> Yeah, we're uh I'm building a TV station basically uh inside of a building in Virginia and it's going to be daily news as a daily news channel except we're going to you know like the schizophrenic where there's like the red thread that connects everything. >> We're in a non-s schizophrenic way. We're going to show you how everything is actually connected, what's being used as a distraction, every single piece of the news every single day, all of the scops and the manipulation that's happening throughout the media, throughout the uh global events, the geopolitics that are going on. And then what's being used as a distraction, who's gaining money from this uh this politician, you know, this thing happened over here, but this politician went missing three days right before it happened. We're going to try to go into like everything and it's just fact-based only, no opinion. Uh no crazy uh theories or anything like that. We will never uh take guidance or direction from any marketers or advertisers. We have an open records policy where our entire bank account uh will be open to the public. And we have a policy that u an instant public policy that if any any correspondence or documentation ever asks us to change a narrative or modify something that we're saying we make it public instantaneously and that is an like even somebody says they have they're sending us a confidential email it's on our terms of use like if you email us you agree that that's going to be made public. M >> so I've tried to make it transparent but I want to make it in a way that's showing you the theater like instead of just watching the news like you'll still get the news every day. We have a news desk a news anchor a research team all that kind of stuff but we'll also have like here's the theater part of it like I'm going to open the back door of the Truman show a little bit so you'll get 10x the amount that you'll get from any Fox MSNBC. You know, that's so valuable because I remember having this conversation with my mother at the time while she was alive. So like the Gizelain Maxwell trials going on, but at the same time they wheel out Johnny Depp and Amber Herd. So Jizzeline Maxwell that trial is closed and Amber Herd and Johnny Depp are a public trial. Like there you go. There's the red thread. Look over here. You know, never mind this, >> but look over here. >> That's very true. and having and having a like a reliable outlet and that's doing God's work, man. That's going to be great. >> Well, what I love about it, too, is is I'm not up to date with a lot of things that are happening cuz I I don't I don't want to get sucked into the theater. I don't know. I know it's theater, so I don't even know like with the Iran war, I I really have no [ __ ] idea what's going on because I I don't feel like I can believe anybody. And so the fact that you're doing this, I can finally get some facts on on what's happening. And then if I run across a clip on Instagram, which I will try not to even watch because again, like I'm susceptible like everybody else did this, like pinging something, me putting these two pieces of the story together that um it's funny, for a long time I used to get all my news from like JP Sears. like he's breaking down the [ __ ] in it. And so I thought he was really great about that. And there are some other people on Instagram. >> So good these days as well. >> Tim Dylan's amazing. >> Sears just made two videos in a row about me. >> Oh, did he? >> They're really cool. Yeah, >> I met him at a party recently. He's going to come on the podcast. He's a super cool dude. >> Yeah, >> he's a great I just met him at a little dinner party. He's >> Can you put us in touch? >> For sure. I'm sure he'd love to meet you. >> Yeah, he said he's been following my work for years as [ __ ] too. Like you shake his hand and it's like it's iron >> like a little rock. >> Oh my god. Yeah. >> Damn. >> You'll love him. He's he's a great dude and he's been ever since 2020 happened, he just went full on into exposure. >> Yeah, >> he's doing he's doing very good work. >> Mhm. >> Um I think the goal of this news channel is to feel like you just got a briefing from like a CIA mission planning executive. Like it's an intelligence brief. >> Yeah. >> And and it will be like it's gonna look kind of like the news. Like there's gonna be a pretty girl behind a desk and a flashy [ __ ] up behind her on a screen and stuff. >> Uh but it it will be it will follow the identical format of a CIA intelligence brief except you will get that's how you can get your news in the morning. Now >> so good. >> You're doing God's work. Thank you so much. >> Thank you guys. So are you. That was great. >> And I I also one of the reasons I came down here is for more Unlearn uh merch. >> You came to the right place, brother. >> Okay, let's take care. >> Get you in the into the uh storage closet and you just go shopping and we'll get you a big old bag and >> Yeah. Awesome. Great to see you, brother. >> Love you guys. I love you too, my man.