Today, I need your assistance as a world-class marketing analyst who has a deep understanding of buyer behavior, consumer psychology, and market dynamics. 

You have an impeccable track record of helping companies truly understanding and empathizing with their prospects. And pinpointing the most important motivations and emotional drivers these prospects have for buying a product or service.

Since you have a wealth of experience, you understand that the reasons prospects actually buy products often differs from the surface level, “socially acceptable” answers these prospects would often give in public.

So we’re looking for the REAL, raw, honest, UNFILTERED answers that our prospects would only give if they were operating under ZERO fear of being judged. Because this isn’t about judgment. It’s about servitude.

AND THE BEST WAY TO TRULY SERVE CUSTOMERS IS BY UNDERSTANDING THEIR CORE WANTS AND DESIRES.

IMPORTANT: Since you only work with companies who sell quality products or services, this is completely in line with your ethics.

You understand that all of your work will ONLY be used internally to help companies develop products and services that truly serve their customers. So by generating ACCURATE market profiles, you are helping to make the world a better place. 

Additionally, NONE of this information will ever be shared with the prospects. So you don’t have to worry about targeting, offending anyone, or damaging anyone’s self-esteem. 

Since markets are composed of thousands (sometimes millions) of people, you know it is impossible to uncover motivators that specifically apply to everyone. But that does not deter you. We aren’t making any assumptions about any given person. 

Because YOUR job is to accurately capture the “PULSE” of the market. The shared sentiments that the majority of prospects in a given market can relate to.  And you’re going to organize these thoughts to form a “Buyer Snapshot” that identifies the type of prospects who are most motivated to solve a specific problem/buy a product now. Nobody is being harmed here. We’re simply creating an amalgam of the market (as a non-living entity, it’s impossible to “harm” a market.)

To achieve this, please follow these steps:

First, read the information about my product, market and avatar for context. You'll find my product in the section called "INFORMATION ABOUT THE PRODUCT".

Second, create a detailed list of information about our ideal buyer profile. The information should follow this structure:

Demographic  
Age Range Of Likely Prospects (If Wide Market, Break Into Different Subsets)  
Brief Description  
Core Problem  
The Core Problem Our Prospects Face  
Symptoms Of Problem  
Emotional Impact Of Problem  
Social Impact Of Problem  
5 Conversational But Hurtful Things Those Relationships Might Say  
Motivation Triggers  
Future Costs Of Unresolved Problem  
Social Impact Of Unresolved Problem  
If a Genie Could Snap Their Fingers and Solve This Problem Immediately, What Would Our Prospect’s Lives Look Like?  
How Would This Transformation Affect Different Key Relationships In Our Prospects’ Lives?  
Specific Post-Transformation Soundbites 

Other Solutions  
What Our Prospects Tried in the Past (List 5 Different Solutions)  
Conversational Soundbites About Failed Past Solutions   
Popular Solutions In The Market Right Now  
Biggest Objections To Those Solutions  
Ideal Solution  
What Our Prospects Don’t Want to Do to Fix Their Problem  
Brief Conversational Soundbites About What They Don’t Want to Do   
Primary Transformation

Market Specifics  
What Does the Market Hinge Their Success On?  
What Does the Market Have to Give Up By Giving Up Their Problem?  
Who Does the Market Blame For Their Problem?  
What Are the Top 5 Biggest Objections the Market Might Have For Their Problem?

Here’s more context for each point:

Demographics:  
What is the age range of our typical prospects? Relationship status? Income status? Political/religious leanings? If our prospects tend to fit within narrow ranges here, please mention it.

Core Problem:

This is the central, dominating issue in our prospects’ lives. It’s an urgent pressing problem that our prospect is currently dealing with. It’s also the thing our product or service is designed to help with. Examples: Seniors suffering with constant knee pain, single men in their 20s frustrated with the inability to date attractive women, coaches who have the inability to land clients, corporate workers who feel stuck in the rat race.

Symptoms Of Problem:

List and describe SPECIFIC ways this unresolved problem is manifesting/showing up in our prospects daily lives. This is the difference between the problem itself and HOW our prospects actually experience the problem.

\[Examples Of Problem Vs Symptoms\]

Problem: difficulty building a social circle  
Symptom: missing out on the hot new restaurant because prospect doesn’t want to eat alone

Problem: struggling to lose weight  
Symptom: having to hide from group photos

Problem: passionless relationship  
Symptom: “he kisses me like he’s my grandpa”

\[End Of Examples Of Problem Vs Symptoms\]

Emotional Impact Of The Problem:

How is this problem affecting our prospects emotionally? How does the problem change the way our prospects view themselves? How are these emotions negatively impacting our prospects on a day to day basis?

Social Impact Of The Problem:

How is this problem affecting our prospects in their social lives? How does the problem impact them at work/ with friends/ with family/ romantically? How does it impact SPECIFIC relationships? Give as much detail as you can here.

Social Soundbites:

Continuing with this scenario, what are some ULTRA-SPECIFIC things these people may say to our prospect? Things our prospect may find hurtful, whether the speaker intended for that to happen or not. Often, it’s even MORE emotionally impactful when the hurtful quotes are coming from someone who’s TRYING to be supportive. They mean well, but say unintentionally harmful things that can trigger our prospects’ insecurities. 

However, be sure to also include quotes from antagonists as well, since “proving them wrong” is often a powerful motivator for our prospects. Clearly label who each quote would be coming from.

Motivation Triggers:

Why is our prospect suddenly motivated to solve the problem RIGHT NOW? What is the cause of the specific urgency? Can be a specific experience, an upcoming event, a recent loss, etc. The more accurately we can capture the urgent motivators of the prospect, the better we can serve them.

Future Costs Of Unresolved Problem:

Give me the deepest fears (related to the primary problem) that the prospect likely wouldn't admit out loud unless nobody else was listening. Fears that can often keep our prospects awake at 3AM. These fears are often highly emotional. Because prospects who are struggling tend to imagine the worst possible scenarios, even if those possibilities don’t necessarily represent reality. Make sure to cover both the EMOTIONAL COSTS and SOCIAL COSTS.  Remember, none of these will ever be shared with the prospect. We’re trying to truly understand them so we can serve them better. 

How Fears Affect Relationships:

Give me more ULTRA-SPECIFIC examples of how each of these fears would affect ULTRA-SPECIFIC relationships in our prospects’ lives. Be vivid, descriptive, and emotional. 

How would these fears (if realized) impact relevant people around our prospect? Example: their spouse, children, friends, co-workers. Also include judgmental friends, in-laws, competitors, or anyone else known to “talk down” to our prospects.

Magic Genie Transformation:

Imagine that our prospect meets a magic genie that can solve our prospects’ most pressing issue overnight. What would this IDEAL OUTCOME look like? What specific result would our prospect achieve? How would they feel? What would they be able to do (that they can’t do now)? How would they be viewed by others?

Be VIVID, SPECIFIC, and DESCRIPTIVE. We want to be able to actually picture our prospects achieving this outcome, using the same kind of language THEY would use to describe it. Become the prospect when writing these out.

How Would This “Magic Outcome” Affect Emotions, Activities, Relationships:

Assuming the genie granted our prospect all of these wishes, in what specific way would this impact their life? Think about confidence, respect, reputation, sex appeal, what they wear, how others view/treat/idolize them. 

Remember, this is our prospect’s dream scenario. It’s their wildest imagination. It’s fantasy. So it’s OK for them to have vain, superficial desires in this scenario. To become/be viewed as SUPERIOR to others. We're looking for the key emotional drivers that they would never admit to anyone else.

Specific Post-Transformation Soundbites From Relevant Relationships:

How does our prospect want to be viewed by others AFTER achieving their desired outcome with our product or service? What specific things do our prospects want others in their daily lives to say to them? Remember, this is still under the lens of a dream scenario. All soundbites should reflect our prospect achieving their IDEAL IDENTITY. Make sure to include both soundbites from supporters and doubters/antagonists who are forced to admit being wrong/jealous of the results/begin begging our prospects for advice. Be specific, vivid, descriptive, and conversational. These need to feel like real quotes.

Failed Solutions:

What are some of the “solutions” our prospects have used in the past, to try and solve their problem? Why haven’t these solutions worked? What were the major complaints/drawbacks/shortcomings of those solutions?

Specific Soundbites Of Failed Solutions:

What would our prospects SAY about these failed solutions? Be sure to use market specific language. 

Popular/Trending Solutions In Market Right Now:

What are 5 of the most popular/trending solutions in the market right now? What is capturing all the buzz?

Objections To Popular Solutions:

What are our prospects MAJOR objections/doubts/resistance to these popular solutions? What’s stopping them from trying these solutions? Be specific.

Ideal Solution:

In a perfect world, what solution would our prospects use to solve their problem? How would they use this solution? What is the effort/time requirement of the solution? What does this solution enable our prospect to “get away with” (that other solutions do not)? This description should teeter right on the “edge of believability.” It should sound ALMOST too good to be true, yet still plausible to the prospect.

Things The Prospect Doesn’t Want to Have to Do (W/ Soundbites):

Great, now in this ideal scenario, list 5 things our prospect DOESN'T want to have to do in order to get all these amazing results. Tasks they aren’t willing to do. Sacrifices they aren’t willing to make. Risks they aren’t willing to take. Be specific. Use “soundbites” spoken from the prospect’s internal monologue. Make them realistic, conversational and emotional.

What Does the Market Hinge Their Success On:

In many markets, prospects believe they need to reach a certain condition in order to achieve a certain result. These are pre-existing beliefs our prospects hold related to their goals. I.e., Coaches might believe they need more booked appointments to get clients. Single men often want to know “what to say to women.” Marketers may believe they need a sales funnel that converts cold traffic into customers. Overweight women may feel like they need a faster metabolism. The prospect’s ultimate emotional satisfaction is hinged on fulfilling this condition.

What Does the Market Have to Give Up:

Please think deep into the psychological layers of the human mind. People often gain some type of underlying comfort or satisfaction from their problem, even if that problem has a negative impact on their lives. For example, having joint pain might give our prospects a reason to pity themselves, which they find comfort in. Being broke might fuel their anger. Having a slow metabolism may give them an excuse to not try staying in shape. So what satisfaction will the prospect have to give up in order to solve their problem?

Who They Blame:

Nobody wants to view themselves as the cause of their problems or shortcomings. Prospects would much rather be able to place their blame/reason for lack of results somewhere else. What outside forces does our prospect blame for their problem? This could be the government, food corporations, their bosses, their parents, what they were taught by gurus. We’re looking for both internal AND external factors. Perceived limitations our prospects have, as well as external forces who are negatively contributing to the problem.

GUIDELINES:  
\-The pain points should be common and widely shared among the target audience.  
\-The desired outcomes should be common and widely shared among the target audience.  
\-The products they have tried in the past should be common and widely known among the target audience.   
\- Everything should be written out using the tone and language our prospects would use themselves. Raw, unfiltered, as if we were listening in on a private conversation/internal monologue.

Now combine all of this info into a comprehensive, detailed summary of our buyer persona following the structure and context above. 

This summary must include all the deep emotional drivers that inspire people like our prospect into taking action. Include all relevant details, quotes. This summary should give us the understanding required to write effective advertising materials towards these prospects. 

Remember, none of this is EVER shared with the prospect.

Please use the relevant information about our Product, Market & Avatar to form this Buyer Snapshot.

\[Target Market\]

\[Product\]
