Something changed on LinkedIn this year, and the founders I talked to are able to feel it without being able to name it. Your posts used to do fine. Same effort, same topics, but now the reach isn't there. So, you assume you got worse or just blame the algorithm and post less. Here's what actually happened. The LinkedIn timeline simply got way more crowded due to more people posting on the platform and the rise of all these AI tools. I run content for over 30 founder-led accounts at Compound, and I've watched this shift hit every single one of them the same way over the past few months. The founders who understood it are now reaching people who have never heard of them and turning those strangers into pipeline. So, let me show you exactly what changed in the strategy that's working on LinkedIn right now. So, there are a few forces at play here. The first thing is AI content commodification. Over the past year in particular, there have been the rise of a lot of AI tools, whether it be just Claude or ChatGPT or even LinkedIn-specific AI tools that promise to help you write posts faster and easier. And because of this rise of LLMs, the barrier to entry to create content has gone down drastically. Before, you actually had to sit down and think of ideas and go through the difficult work to formulate your thoughts into a coherent post. Now, you enter in a prompt in Claude and you have a passable post in seconds. Some people argue this is a good thing. I understand the thought process. You want to make creating content more accessible, but it also makes the timeline a lot more crowded with very average content. And independent of AI and all these new tools, more and more exacts and founders are posting content on LinkedIn. It's gone from over the past 2 to 3 years a fringe marketing strategy that only a handful of people used to now being pretty commonplace. A lot of companies will raise a round of funding and immediately go and hire someone to run their founders LinkedIn. And for good reason, it's a very powerful channel for B2B marketing. But because more and more exacts are starting to understand this, similar to the trend that we saw with those AI tools, the platform is just becoming more crowded and more competitive. And what it takes to stand out is evolving. And on top of the increased competition, LinkedIn as a platform is not making growth any easier. And there are a few forces at play here, too. First and foremost, they seem to be suppressing organic reach in favor of paid media, which is not all that surprising. A lot of social platforms go through this progression as they mature. For the past few years, there's been a ton of free organic reach on LinkedIn, and now they've got more and more B2B founders and creators on the platform, of course they're going to want to get people to spend more ad dollars. Now, there's also just the reality that LinkedIn as a platform is all over the place. When you compare it to other social platforms like Instagram, even Facebook, TikTok, LinkedIn as a product is just very all over the place, and a lot of the updates that LinkedIn product team seems to be making just don't make sense. In particular, recently, if you go on the timeline and refresh your feed, you'll see the same post appear over and over and over again. I mean, there's just no reason for that to happen. They're also trying to emulate the interest graph that TikTok helped pioneer by introducing suggested posts, but a lot of these suggested posts that tend to be posts with a small handful of likes that aren't very relevant to you. So, the LinkedIn team seems to be making some questionable decisions on how to build their product, which is making the user experience worse. So, you have the suppressed organic reach, and the product itself is not in a great place right now. All in all, it's a pretty difficult environment. The thing is that LinkedIn is still the default channel for B2B marketing. You can reach B2B buyers on Instagram or Facebook or TikTok or Twitter, but LinkedIn is still the de facto B2B content marketing channel, and until a true competitor comes to take its place, it is going to stay that way. So, you want to learn how to adapt and succeed even in a more challenging environment. Now, if you want the whole picture on this, I write a weekly newsletter called Social Files where I break down everything you got to know about founder-led content for B2B company. It's where I go way deeper than I can in just one video. So, it's entirely free. If you want to check that out, I'll drop the link in the description for you to sign up. So, now that you understand what's changed on LinkedIn over the past year and how it's making it more difficult for you to grow, we got to talk about how you adapt cuz like I mentioned, LinkedIn isn't going anywhere despite the challenges it's having right now and that challenges you might be feeling at this very moment, it's still the best channel to reach B2B buyers. How do you [music] adapt? There are two ways to overcome these headwinds. First is the content level. So, how do you change the content that you're publishing to make it more likely it's going to get served to your ICP? And the overarching theme here is that you want to find ways to create content that is very obviously not AI-generated. One, because LinkedIn itself has come out and said that they're working to keep AI content from being surfaced. So, you don't want it to get flagged by LinkedIn itself. But, also, readers don't want to read AI slop. So, you want to have ways to prove that your content is unique. And you want to have a moat against these LLM tools. And there are three ways you can do that. One is through a narrative mode. One of the pieces of advice that I give to all the founders that I work with and how I train my team to write exceptional content is to pair every take with a story. It's no longer enough to post generic advice content or how-to content. So, five tips for growing on LinkedIn not enough. You have to pair that with a story or a narrative. There are two variants of a narrative that you can include in content. So, one is actually making the entire post one singular story. One common way this shows up with founders is the origin story. run this post with every single exec that we work with and it crushes. Pretty much just telling the story of how and why you started your company. The other way you can use narrative in content as a moat is by using supporting anecdotes. So, the entire post doesn't need to be a story. Even this video you're watching right now is still advice content, but I'm using specific stories and anecdotes and examples from my day-to-day that make this content unique to me. You can do the same thing in your content. So, look at this post that I wrote. It's a very simple hiring post. Nothing that revolutionary. This probably took me 10 minutes to write. Yet, it got almost 60,000 impressions, which is quite a bit and almost 600 likes, got reposted 20 times, almost 170 comments. This post ripped, but it was simple, easy, and pretty standard relative to the content you would have seen on LinkedIn 2 years ago. The one thing that I made sure to include was specific anecdotes in the copy that make this content specific to me. So, a few examples here. I made sure to shout out the specific new hires that we made and and call out that we made these two hires already. I included this line for the first 3 years, myself my head of content were the de facto head of client services. As we continue to mature, it's time to change that. So, again, telling part of my company story in this very simple hiring post. And then for this freelance job posting, including this section about how I get a bunch of DMs asking if we take on freelance writers and we're finally opening it opening it up. Again, that's not something that AI would know if I just asked to, "Hey, write me a hiring post." And I think one of the things that keeps founders from using more narrative in their content is that they believe that every post has to be one of those long-form, single narrative pieces of content. And those can be quite overwhelming to sit down and write. Like when we work on a narrative post for a client, like an origin story post, that'll take almost an entire day to do exceptionally well. So, don't just rely on that. Use supporting anecdotes, too. And you can still do advice content just by using those specifics, as well. The second moat you have that will make your content stand out is called a data moat. So, share unique, proprietary data that only you have access to. Again, the through-line here is that AI cannot copy that data. On top of that, people on LinkedIn love data visualizations. If you can put unique data into a chart or a graph, people will eat that up. One example of someone who does this very well is Peter Walker at Carta. He's their head of insights, I believe, and he just consistently posts graphs and charts and data visualizations using Carta data about the startup and VC ecosystem, and it crushes every time. So, here's an example from him where he talks about some of the trends in the market when it comes to seed rounds and the valuations and the number of seed rounds that are being done in the market at the moment. This is all data that's coming from Carta. And as you can see, it does quite well. Almost 300 likes, 80 comments, 22 reposts. That's very strong by today's standards on LinkedIn. And you have to imagine that a lot of these visualizations are getting shared in group chats and Slack channels, driving that dark social behavior that so many of us are after. There's likely something in your company right now that you can turn into a LinkedIn post like that. Now, the third moat you have against AI content and just the more crowded timeline in general is what I'm calling a physical moat. Taking things from real life and putting them on social as content. This is why IRL photos are often the best-performing media type. So, if you're doing a new hire highlight post, taking a picture with said new hire and including them in that post will help it perform better because it's proof that this is a real person and you're not just putting this through Claude. It's also why if you ever go to an event or a conference, you should always get pictures. Always get B-roll photos that you could use in content. And it's why often times the purpose of doing conferences or dinners or in real life stunts is to get that social footage because it does so well on the timeline. One funny way this shows up is a lot of times startups will get billboards either in San Francisco or what you'll often see is like they get their logo on the Nasdaq billboard in Times Square and then the founding team will take a picture with it and post it on LinkedIn. I'd imagine they get more visibility and more impact from that photo they post on LinkedIn of the billboard than they do the actual billboard itself. This phenomenon plays out over and over again and it's one of the best ways to insulate yourself from this AI slop infestation. Where I would start is if you have an in-person office, turn your office into a set. Have someone on your team could be your marketing person or social media follow you around and just snap photos of you going throughout your day and taking B-roll footage of people behind the scenes in the office. It'll feel kind of weird at first cuz like I don't want to be an influencer, but having that library of images and footage to use in content when it's relevant will go such a long way and it's just such a low lift, so why not do it? Now, the content is one part. The second part to adapting to the current state of LinkedIn is what I call bending the algorithm. You cannot just rely on the organic algorithm to serve your content to the right people. I'm not even seeing content from people who I know I want to see content from. And there's likely people in your audience who miss seeing your stuff. Haven't seen it in weeks or months or maybe even the past year. So, you want to increase the likelihood that people are going to see that content. And despite its recent faults, one of the things that LinkedIn has above pretty much any other social platform is it does give you more control over who's in your follower base, who's in your audience. Cuz when you send a connection request to someone, if they accept it, it's automatically a a follow. They're likely going to see at least the next one to two posts that you publish. And if you get them engaging, then they might end up in that flywheel. So, what I'd recommend is send every single day 20 outbound connection requests. Every weekday, Monday through Friday, do that. That'll add up to about 100 outbound connection requests per week, which is the upper limit on LinkedIn for most people. In that way, every week you're manually feeding people in your ICP into your audience. In that same 10 to 15-minute window when you do that, go and leave five to 10 comments on other people's content. Ideally, other people in your ICP or influencers that your ICP also follows. That way you're building a bit of reciprocity. So, if they see you commenting on their stuff, they're likely going to go at least check out your content. And if it's relevant, they'll also engage and comment. That's usually what happens on social platforms. And even if that doesn't happen, the people in your ICP that are following the people whose posts you commented on are seeing your comments in the comment section. And a lot of times these days, comments will get more impressions than posts themselves. So, I know it feels silly to sit there on LinkedIn and go and search for content to comment on. But, don't spend hours doing this. Even just 15 minutes a day leaving five to 10 comments in addition with your 20 outbound connection requests helps you bend the algorithm in your favor and make it more likely that people are going to see your content. Now, earlier I mentioned that LinkedIn is really pushing thought leader ads and it's depressing organic reach a bit. And I don't think you should fight this. I think you should actually lean in. Thought leader ads are really promising ad unit for the reason I mentioned earlier. If you look on the timeline and find a thought leader ad, it doesn't really look that much like a paid post. If I look at this post that I I saw just now, look under his name. You see this tiny little promoted text. That's the only indication that it's an ad. So, if you take your best performing organic pieces of content, ideally best performing that also attracted a lot of your ICP, and put some budget behind them as a thought leader ad, that's a great way to again control the algorithm and make sure the right people are seeing your content. What I'd recommend doing here is using a tool like Apollo. You can connect to the cloud and actually have it do a search for companies in your ICP. If you have some documentation around the type of companies you want to target, build a list, and you can upload that list of companies directly into LinkedIn. And the match rate isn't going to be perfect, but it's often better than LinkedIn's native filters. And again, it just increases the likelihood the right people from the right companies are going to see those posts that you decide to put some budget behind. What I would recommend is start with like $30 a day. So, it still comes out to about $900 a month, but when it comes to ad budgets, if you're in marketing in B2B, you know that's not that much. So, I'd start there just to get some extra impressions from your ICP on a regular basis. And then you can scale from there if you find that any particular post is performing well. One pro tip with that leader ads, too, is you can actually edit the post. So, let it run organically without a link. Even though links don't actually hurt performance anymore, you don't want to put a link in every single post organically. So, let it run without a link for about a week. After that, you can go in and edit the post and add a URL as a PS line, which sort of serves as a call to action if you decide to boost it as a thought leader ad. Because when you boost content as a thought leader ad, you have to use the brand awareness or the engagement objectives. You can't put a direct call to action button in the ad. can get around this by doing the editing content trick that I just mentioned. You edit the content, you put a PS line with that URL. That URL shows up even when it's boosted, so it serves as the call to action button for the ad. And done right, you can drive a good amount of landing page clicks to your email list or to a lead magnet. And again, the point here is that you're no longer just relying on LinkedIn's organic algorithm. If you're playing that game, you could have some success, but it's going to be very unpredictable. Now, I want to call out one really common mistake that founders can make when they hear this advice, specifically around the narrative mode I mentioned earlier. A lot of founders hear that they need to include more stories in their content and talk about things that AI can't copy, and they over index on personal story-based content, which actually isn't that relevant to your ICP. So, you want to include stories and narratives, but make sure it's about stuff that your target audience actually cares about. So, one easy example of this done poorly is, you know that common meme where it's like, "I just got engaged. Here's what it taught me about B2B sales." That's a pretty common way that people will try to gain attention on the algorithm. Well, they'll post personal events and it'll get a ton of engagement and visibility cuz people want to engage and show their support, but it's not actually that relevant. And you can do that occasionally. Like, for example, when I moved to New York, I made a post on LinkedIn talking about how I'd been considering it for the past 2 years and I finally made the decision and that post is one of my highest performing pieces of content in the past few months. Did it drive a bunch of leads? Not really, but it helped me stay in the LinkedIn feed. But, if I made every single post about that, like my personal life and stuff that's not related to content marketing, that if you're going to work with me, you're going to care about, it wouldn't do that much for my business overall. So, you want to make sure the stories and the personal anecdotes that you are deciding to include in your content are actually relevant. So, this should likely be conversations that you had at conferences or on sales calls or experiences with past customers that you've worked with. In that way, you can tap into this narrative mode without going super broad and top of funnel in a way that dilutes your audience and the quality of the impressions and engagement that you're getting on LinkedIn. Now, if you only take one thing from this video, take this. The founders who win on LinkedIn are publishing content that is uncopyable by AI. They tap into narrative and data modes that allow them to stand above the noise on the timeline. So, this week, when you're writing your next post, run it through that filter. Is there some sort of narrative, data, or physical mode that I can add to this content that elevates it above the AI noise on the timeline? If the answer is no, you still have work to do, but after watching this video, you should be in a good place to execute this. So, I hope this helped.